Title: The Cerebellar Engine: Multiscale Digital Brain Co-simulations Reveal How Cerebellar Spiking Architecture Shapes Cortical Coherence

URL Source: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849v1.full.pdf

Number of Pages: 34

Markdown Content:
# The Cerebellar Engine: Multiscale Digital Brain Co-simulations Reveal How Cerebellar Spiking Architecture Shapes Cortical Coherence 

Alice Geminiani 1,*,  Jil Mona Meier 2,3,*, , Dionysios Perdikis 2,3,*, , Sabrine Ouertani 2,3 , Claudia Casellato 1, Petra Ritter 2,3,4,5,6,T , Egidio D’Angelo 1,7,T  

> 1

Neurophysiology Unit, Dept of Brain and Behavioral Sciences, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy  

> 2

Berlin Institute of Health at Charité – Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, 10117, Berlin, Germany  

> 3

Department of Neurology with Experimental Neurology, Charité – Universitätsmedizin Berlin, corporate member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, 10117, Berlin, Germany  

> 4

Bernstein Focus State Dependencies of Learning and Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, Berlin, Germany  

> 5

Einstein Center for Neuroscience Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, 10117, Berlin, Germany  

> 6

Einstein Center Digital Future, Wilhelmstraße 67, 10117, Berlin, Germany  

> 7

Brain Connectivity Center, IRCCS Mondino Foundation, Pavia, Italy  

> *,T

equal contribution  

> 

corresponding authors, E-mails: alice.geminiani@unipv.it, jil-mona.meier@bih-charite.de, dionysios.perdikis@bih-charite.de 

# Abstract 

The impact of cellular activities on large-scale brain dynamics is thought to determine brain functioning and disease, yet the causal relationships of neural mechanisms across scales remain unclear. Recently, the cerebellum has been reported to affect whole-brain dynamics during sensorimotor integration. To disclose the underlying mechanisms, we have developed a multiscale digital brain co-simulator, in which a spiking neural network of the olivo-cerebellar microcircuit is embedded in a mouse virtual brain and wired with other nodes using an atlas-based long-range connectome. Parameters and bi-directional interfaces between the spiking olivo-cerebellar network and other rate-coded modules were tuned to match experimental data of primary sensory and motor cortex (M1 and S1) power spectral densities and neuronal spiking rates. Then, the role of the cerebellar circuitry on sensorimotor integration was analyzed by lesioning critical circuit connections in silico . Simulations showed that spike processing within the cerebellar circuit is key to explaining the gamma-band coherence between M1 and S1 during sensorimotor integration. These results provide a mechanistic explanation of how the cerebellum promotes the formation of sensorimotor contingencies in relevant cortical modules as the basis of its critical role in sensorimotor prediction. On a broader perspective, this modelling approach opens new perspectives for the multiscale investigation of brain physiological and pathological states in relation to specific cellular and microcircuit properties. 

# 1. Introduction 

While animals interact with the external world, their brains continuously integrate information from multiple sensory modalities and use this information to control the planning, execution, and adaptation of movements, establishing a bidirectional link between motor commands and sensory feedback (Luo et al., 2017; Wolpert et al., 1995). This process, known as sensorimotor integration, is critical for flexible 

.CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint and skilled behavior across species (Edwards et al., 2019; Ivica et al., 2022; Sober & Sabes, 2005; Wolpert et al., 2011), and it is disrupted in motor disorders (Abbruzzese & Berardelli, 2003). Sensorimotor integration relies on distributed cortical and subcortical circuits, including sensory and motor cortices, thalamus, cerebellum and basal ganglia (Ferezou et al., 2007; Mo & Sherman, 2019; Romano et al., 2020), but the exact contribution of each brain region to sensorimotor integration remains unclear (Flanders, 2011). These circuits give rise to coordinated neural activity across sensory and motor regions, notably the primary sensory (S1) and motor (M1) cortices (Matyas et al., 2010), with the “cerebellar engine” playing a crucial role in transforming multimodal sensory information streams into movement coordination and precise motor adjustments. Sensorimotor integration involves gamma wave coherence, i.e., a synchronization of neuronal firing across distinct brain regions thought to facilitate high-level processing and communication. Coherence reflects a "binding" mechanism for perception, memory, and awareness, linking sensory inputs into a coherent experience and correlating with enhanced focus, memory, motor, and cognitive performance (Aoki et al., 1999; D’Angelo et al., 2025; Fries, 2015; Palesi et al., 2015, 2017, 2020). The cerebellum, with its widespread connections with the forebrain (Palesi et al., 2015, 2017, 2020), is strategically positioned to boost cortical coherence during sensorimotor integration thereby performing operations of predictive coding for motor and cognitive operations (D’Angelo et al., 2025). The main question is then how the cerebellar circuitry contributes to cortical gamma coherence. A common paradigm to study sensorimotor integration is rodent whisking, a naturalistic behavior in which animals actively control rhythmic whisker movements and use tactile inputs from the whisker pad to infer environmental features and adjust ongoing motor output. In the complex whisking control loop (Bosman et al., 2011; Petersen, 2014; Takatoh et al., 2022), the cerebellum has been shown to be fundamental for movement amplification, adaptation and M1-S1 synchronization (Brown & Raman, 2018; Lindeman et al., 2021; O’Connor et al., 2002). Experimental evidence shows that inactivation of the cerebellar nuclei (CN) – the output of the cerebellum – during free whisking leads to a reduction in M1-S1 coherence in the gamma band (Popa et al., 2013). However, the mechanism underlying this effect remains unclear. Cerebral cortex, thalamus and cerebellum can all generate gamma-band oscillations, and it has been proposed that the cerebellum may influence M1-S1 coherence via the cerebellothalamocortical pathway (Proville et al., 2014). Yet, the functional role of cerebellar microcircuit processing in shaping cortical dynamics during whisking is still poorly understood. Cerebellar Purkinje cells encode position and velocity of whiskers (Bosman et al., 2010; Chen et al., 2016), and can spontaneously generate gamma-band oscillations in the cerebellar cortex (De Zeeuw et al., 2008; Middleton et al., 2008), but whether and how their activity, together with other cerebellar microcircuit elements, are crucial for sensorimotor integration and the sensorimotor cortex coherence remains an open research question. The ongoing challenges with specific manipulations in rodent brains during whisking experiments open opportunities for computational multiscale modeling to investigate sensorimotor integration, from microcircuit lesions inside the cerebellum towards disruptions in M1-S1 coherence in silico .Multiscale modelling is an ideal tool for complementing experimental animal studies in investigating brain functioning. Brain activity evolves across multiple temporal and spatial scales, which are not easy to access, measure and specifically perturb simultaneously, while the interactions and causal relationships across these scales are still mostly unknown. Multiscale models of the brain embedding different levels of granularity and co-simulations can be a powerful tool to address this issue, and have been successfully used to study basal ganglia spiking dynamics during deep brain stimulation effects in Parkinson’s disease (Meier et al., 2022), the macroscopic consequences of spiking activity in the CA1 region of the cellular-level hippocampus (Kusch et al., 2024; Tartarini et al., 2026), seizure propagation from the hippocampus (Hater et al., 2026), frontoparietal spiking dynamics to forecast the outcome of intelligent tests (Schirner et al., 2023). However, a multiscale model with an integrated cerebellar spiking circuit does not exist yet. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Computational modeling has been successfully used for studying multiple empirical phenomena in human and rodent brains. The Virtual Brain (TVB; thevirtualbrain.org) (Ritter et al., 2013; Sanz-Leon et al., 2013; Schirner et al., 2022) is a neuroinformatics platform for whole-brain simulations. In TVB, the brain is modeled as a network of nodes corresponding to regions following an anatomical parcellation. Each node is a dynamical system, e.g., a neural mass model describing the average dynamics of a neuronal population or local network. The whole-brain network dynamics result from the interaction of nodes’ dynamics via the long-range coupling, whereas additional inputs, e.g. spatiotemporal stimuli, can also be applied. Similarly, The Virtual Mouse Brain (TVMB) (Melozzi et al., 2017), has been developed as an extension of TVB, based on the tracing information available from the Allen Institute of Brain Sciences (Oh et al., 2014). So far, TVMB has been used for simulating seizure propagation, demonstrating resting-state dynamics switches between healthy and pathological states (Melozzi et al., 2017), reproduce post-stroke brain activity (Allegra Mascaro et al., 2020), and identifying resting-state networks after simulated focal stimulation similar to optogenetic stimulation in vivo (Spiegler et al., 2020). However, the majority of data from rodents is available rather on a microscopic scale than on a whole-brain macroscopic scale. Integrating microscopic information in large-scale brain modeling requires a multiscale approach to modeling. On the other hand, detailed models of the cerebellum have been developed based on micro- and meso-scale circuit properties, including neuronal densities, morphologies, and local connectivity patterns (De Schepper et al., 2022). When simulated as spiking neural networks parametrized on electrophysiology data (Geminiani, Casellato, et al., 2019), these models could reproduce cerebellum-specific single neuron and population dynamics in resting-state conditions and during simple tasks like eyeblink classical conditioning (Geminiani et al., 2024; Geminiani, Pedrocchi, et al., 2019). The aim of the current study is to generate a multiscale model of the whole brain embedding a cerebellar spiking neural network and to use co-simulations to provide insights into the mechanisms of sensorimotor integration during a free whisking behavior paradigm. Following a multiscale fitting against multimodal datasets from literature, including the experimental study of (Popa et al., 2013), we test the role of spiking cerebellar circuit architecture in sensorimotor integration in silico by lesioning connections between different neural populations inside the cerebellar microcircuit. Our hypothesis is that the cerebellum is not simply conveying signals into the M1-S1 loop but rather it uses internal spike processing to control the coherence between M1 and S1 during sensorimotor integration. 

# 2. Results 

# 2.1 Co-simulations of whole-brain neural mass and cerebellar spiking model provide an in silico tool to investigate cerebellar mechanisms for sensorimotor integration 

We developed a multiscale model of the rodent brain and simulated neural activity during free whisking to investigate how the cerebellum shapes cortical dynamics in sensorimotor integration. The connectivity of the whole-brain model was derived from the Allen Mouse Brain Atlas (Oh et al., 2014) (Fig. R1A). Cortical brain regions were modelled as Cortico-Thalamic Wilson-Cowan neural masses (Griffiths et al., 2020), and subcortical ones as a modified version of the same neural mass model without the loop to specific thalamus (Fig. R1C). A spiking neural network (SNN) model was used for the cerebellar cortex and its main whisking input region (the principal nucleus of the trigeminal), the cerebellar nuclei (CN) and the inferior olive (De Schepper et al., 2022; Geminiani et al., 2024) (Fig. R1D). The cerebellar SNN receives sensory inputs – including whisking signals from the trigeminal nuclei – via mossy fibers, which reach the cerebellar nuclei (output of the cerebellum) through two main pathways: a direct excitatory projection from mossy fiber collaterals (direct nuclear pathway) and an 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

indirect inhibitory projection from Purkinje cells, which conveys the result of cerebellar cortical processing of mossy fiber signals (indirect cortical pathway). Along the indirect pathway, mossy fibers project to granule and Golgi cells (GrC and GoC) in the cerebellar cortex; signals then propagate to the molecular and Purkinje layers, where Molecular layer interneurons (MLI) inhibit Purkinje cells (PC), the output of the cerebellar cortex, which in turn inhibit excitatory CN neurons (CNe) – the output of the whole cerebellum to the rest of the brain – and inhibitory CN neurons (CNi) (Fig. R1D). Finally, whisker neural mass nodes allowed for whisking to be simulated with a closed loop between the cortex and the periphery via the most important subcortical regions involved in transferring the whisking-related signals, i.e., a whisking pathway, with the involved connections amplified by a pathway gain (Fig. R1B). The neural mass nodes were simulated with The Virtual Mouse Brain (TVMB) (Melozzi et al., 2017), an extension of The Virtual Brain (Ritter et al., 2013; Sanz-Leon et al., 2013; Schirner et al., 2022), while the SNN was implemented in NEST. An inter-scale interface was designed to transform neural activity of TVMB nodes into spiking activity of NEST nodes, and vice versa (Par. 4.4). 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Figure R1 : Overview of the whole-brain model. (A) Whole-brain connectivity matrix (without specific thalami and whiskers, zero diagonal set to average value for visualization) derived from the Allen Mouse Brain Atlas. Mouse brain icon from bioRender.com. (B) Schematic of the whisking pathway, along which connections are scaled with the pathway gain. The network includes thalamocortical (TC) and subcortical nodes implemented in TVMB and spiking nodes implemented in NEST. (C) Schematic of TVMB nodes, including thalamocortical nodes (in green) with four state variables (e: excitatory neural activity, i: inhibitory neural activity, s: excitatory relay neural activity, r: inhibitory reticular neural activity) and subcortical nodes (in purple) with excitatory and inhibitory neural activity state variables. (D) Spiking neural network implemented in NEST, with neuronal populations and internal 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

connections. The network includes the ansiform lobule node (from the cerebellar cortex) with four neuronal populations, the cerebellar nuclei node with two neuronal populations, the inferior olive node (from the medulla) with one neuronal population. The interface points (input and output) with TVMB are indicated by red arrows. The overall sensory input from TVMB is conveyed to the ansiform lobule and the cerebellar nuclei through mossy fibers. These fibers also receive the whisking input from replay neurons in the principal sensory nucleus of trigeminal that in turn receives the input from TVMB through an interface point. Output from the spiking network comes from granule cells of the ansiform lobule (to the rest of the cerebellar cortex through parallel fibers), excitatory neurons of the cerebellar nuclei and inferior olive neurons. Fibers/neural populations at the interface are marked in bold. 

# 2.2 Developed model captures experimental data across scales 

Free parameters in the model were tuned against multiscale datasets from rodent whisking experiments, including Local Field Potentials (LFPs) in M1 and S1, and single-unit electrophysiology recordings in the cerebellum. The resulting model reproduced experimental data across scales, from neural field signals to single-neuron spiking activity, both in measures used as target during fitting and in other relevant measures for the biological plausibility of simulations (Fig. R2). The neural mass model parameters were tuned using TVMB-only simulations applying Simulation-Based Inference (SBI) (Tejero-Cantero et al., 2020) , against experimental M1 and S1 power spectral density (PSD) from (Popa et al., 2013). PSD of M1 and S1 from 10 TVMB-only simulation runs was similar to the PSD of Local Field Potentials (LFPs) from rodent recordings in the same brain regions (Popa et al., 2013) (Fig. R2A-left), with average values in theta- and gamma-bands close to the target (Mean Absolute Error – MAE equal to 0.007 and 0.001, respectively; Fig. R2A-right). A similar M1 and S1 PSD, with comparable values of theta- and gamma-band average power (MAE equal to 0.008 and 0.006, respectively), was obtained in TVMB-NEST co-simulations (Fig. Suppl. 1), demonstrating robustness of fitting when increasing simulation complexity. The pathway gain parameters were optimized using TVMB-only simulations also applying SBI, against the experimental M1-S1 gamma-band coherence drop from (Popa et al., 2013). Therefore, we virtually inactivated the cerebellum in the whole-brain model, by setting all connections to and from the cerebellar cortex and CN to zero and compared simulations with cerebellum active ( cerebON ) or inactive ( cerebOFF ). We measured M1-S1 gamma-band coherence within each brain hemisphere and its drop between cerebON and cerebOFF conditions. In 10 runs of TVMB-only and TVMB-NEST co-simulations, we show that both TVMB-only and TVMB-NEST co-simulations of the fitted model reproduce the reduced M1-S1 gamma-band coherence (statistically significant) drop effect when inactivating the cerebellum during whisking (Fig. R2B) compared to simulations with active cerebellum. Notably, the optimized pathway gain also facilitated the emergent propagation of the whisking signal: the involved regions exhibited theta-band oscillations representing whisker movement, despite these oscillations not being an explicit fitting target. Finally, the inter-scale interface parameters for TVMB-NEST co-simulations were tuned using grid search to obtain physiological firing rates of granule cells in the cerebellar SNN, against single-unit electrophysiology data during whisking (Chen et al., 2017) (Par. 4.6.2).The results shown here were robust for different configurations of parameters, which correspond to a range of values of the parameter G, which scales the global coupling strength of the TVMB large scale connectivity. In co-simulations, the whisking signal was effectively transmitted from the principal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal (PrV) to the cerebellar SNN via the tuned inter-scale interface: all major cerebellar neuronal populations exhibited whisking-related theta-band oscillations (Fig. R2D-left and middle column), which would be absent without a theta-band oscillating input (Geminiani, Pedrocchi, et al., 2019), and average firing rates within physiological ranges (Fig. R2D-right column). Although only the granule cell firing rate was used to fit the input interface parameters, all other cerebellar populations also displayed physiologically realistic firing rates, as measured in rodent single-unit recordings during free whisking (Chen et al., 2016, 2017; van der Heijden et al., 2022). Taken together, these results 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

support the functional validity of the SNN within the whole-brain model and its generalization from resting-state and eyeblink conditioning of previous works (Geminiani et al., 2024; Geminiani, Pedrocchi, et al., 2019) to whisking. 

.CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint Figure R2. Functional validity of the model across scales. (A) PSD of M1 and S1 for 10 TVMB-only simulation runs and both hemispheres (n=20) represented in purple, compared to the target experimental PSD from (Popa et al., 2013) in blue. (B) M1-S1 coherence drop in gamma band (25 – 60 Hz) when inactivating the cerebellum, in TVMB-only simulations and TVMB-NEST co-simulations. (Left) Bar plots of mean gamma coherence across 10 simulation runs, with standard deviations as error bars, for TVMB-only simulations (purple) and TVMB-NEST co-simulations (green). *** indicates a significant difference between cerebON and cerebOFF conditions in both TVMB-only and co-simulations (two-sided t-test, p<0.0001). (Right) Coherence drop effect as percentage of the normalized difference (cerebON – cerebOFF) / cerebON in TVBM-only and TVMB-NEST co-simulations, displayed as means and standard deviation (over the pooled hemispheric values), where dots represent single simulation runs of both hemispheres (20 dots in total). The most right average value in the plot displays the experimental data taken from Popa et al., where mean gamma-band coherence drops between M1 and S1 were similarly calculated for comparison. We can observe that both TVMB-only (mean: 53.4%) and co-simulations (mean: 54.8%) have mean coherence drop values close to the experimental data (51.3%). (C) Afferent coupling signal from TVMB to the SNN through the principal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal in the right hemisphere, during a sub-interval of an example 10-s TVMB-NEST co-simulation. The inset highlights the interval corresponding to the one considered in the spiking activity plot below. (D) Raster plots from 50 sampled neurons and 20-ms-bin spike population histograms for the main cell types in the cerebellar SNN of the right hemisphere (GrC – granule cells, MLI – Molecular Layer Interneurons, PC – Purkinje cell, CNe – excitatory neurons in the cerebellar nuclei) during a 1-s interval of an example 10-s simulation of whisking. The plots on the right report the mean across the population for 10 simulation runs (light green line) compared to experimental mean (blue dot) and range (min to max, blue error bar) from (Chen et al., 2017) for GrC and MLI, (Chen et al., 2016) for PC and (van der Heijden et al., 2022) for CNe. 

# 2.3 Virtual lesions in the cerebellar spiking neural network reveal the role of distinct cerebellar circuit elements in regulating cerebellar and cortical gamma-band dynamics 

After assessing that the model could reproduce the experimental observation in (Popa et al., 2013), we exploited the higher level of granularity in the cerebellar SNN model to study the role of different cerebellar mechanisms on cortical coherence during the same task. We applied localized virtual lesions in the SNN within TVMB-NEST co-simulations and compared to the reference TVMB-NEST co-simulations of whisking with active cerebellar nuclei ( CONTROL ). We thereby aimed to test the role of separate circuit elements in gamma-band modulation of cerebellar activity and M1-S1 coherence, by selectively inactivating different connections in the SNN. To isolate the contribution of each connection to population dynamics independently of changes in mean activity (Heinzle, 2007), we adjusted single-neuron intrinsic parameters of the target populations to preserve their average firing rates. In addition, to further control for activity baseline and amplitude related effects from recurrent loops in the whole-brain network, the cerebellar output was normalized by its median (50 th percentile) and amplitude (99 th –50 th percentile) of the CONTROL co-simulations, via adjustments to the TVMB to NEST interface parameters. 

2.3.1 Gamma-band power in the cerebellum 

Experiments show that PC activity exhibits gamma-band oscillations, both in absence of external stimuli (Middleton et al., 2008) and during whisking (Lindeman et al., 2021), due to either intrinsic or synaptic mechanisms along the pathway between mossy fibers and PC (Par. 2.1). In addition, PCs – output of the indirect cortical pathway in the cerebellum - play a crucial role in shaping oscillations in the cerebellar nuclei (Shin & De Schutter, 2006), in synergy with mossy fiber synaptic inputs – the direct nuclear pathway (Y. Wu & Raman, 2017), especially at higher frequency bands including the gamma band (Person & Raman, 2011). It has been hypothesized that gamma-band oscillations could in turn be relevant for M1-S1 gamma-band coherence (De Zeeuw et al., 2008), but experimental evidence is still inconclusive (McAfee et al., 2022). To test this hypothesis on the relevance of gamma-band power for coherence during whisking, we first evaluated whether the SNN, which was not tuned against any oscillatory 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

property, could actually reproduce these observed gamma-band oscillations as in experiments (Middleton et al., 2008; Person & Raman, 2011), by measuring the power inside the SNN. We measured power of Purkinje cells (output of the cerebellar cortex), and excitatory cerebellar nuclei neurons (output of the cerebellum) in CONTROL , relative to mossy fibers (input fibers of the cerebellum), to normalize for any contribution of incoming oscillations from outside the cerebellum. Relative power was expressed as power ratio between the integrals of the power spectral densities in gamma (the frequency of interest) and theta (the whisking frequency) bands of the respective population of interest (either PC or CNe) relative to that of the mossy fibers (Fig. R3-Right). Fig. R3 shows that the gamma and theta power of Purkinje cells increase with respect to mossy fibers’ power in the same bands, while power increases in the gamma- and decreases in the theta-band for CN relative to the mossy fibers. 

Figure R3. (Left) Power spectral density of mossy fibers (cerebellar input), Purkinje cells (cerebellar cortex output) and excitatory cerebellar nuclei neurons – CNe (cerebellar output) in CONTROL. Lines and shaded areas represent mean and standard deviation of 10 simulation runs, each averaged over both hemispheres. (Right) Bar plot of the average relative increase of gamma- and theta-band power in the two populations of interest (PC and CNe) with respect to mossy fibers, expressed as log 10 of the power ratio. Error bars display standard deviations across 10 simulation runs, each averaged over both hemispheres. 

To investigate the contribution of PC and mossy fibers in shaping the cerebellar output (Shin & De Schutter, 2006; Y. Wu & Raman, 2017), we run TVBM-NEST co-simulations, while independently inactivating input connections to the cerebellar nuclei excitatory neurons, i.e. the excitatory connections from mossy fibers ( MOStoCN ) and the inhibitory ones from Purkinje cells ( PCtoCN ). When evaluating the gamma-band power in these virtual lesion conditions, we found that the PC power relative to mossy fibers was unchanged with PCtoCN lesion, as expected given that the pathway from mossy fibers to PC remained intact, while it was significantly reduced with MOStoCN lesion (Fig. R4-left). Instead, relative CNe gamma-band power was significantly decreased in both lesions (Fig. R4-right). In both lesions, while the mossy fiber signal might change, the gamma-band power of mossy fibers did not change significantly, and the absolute PC and CNe gamma-band power changed in the same directions as the relative one. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Figure R4. Contributions of cerebellar circuit elements to gamma-band power inside the cerebellar circuit. Relative change of power in the two populations of interest (left: Purkinje cells; right: excitatory cerebellar nuclei neurons) with respect to mossy fibers measured as gamma-band power ratio in CONTROL and in virtual lesion conditions – PCtoCN and MOStoCN (PCtoCN: inactivating the indirect inhibitory projection from PC to CNe, MOStoCN: inactivating the direct excitatory projection from mossy fibers (MOS) to CNe). (n࣯ =࣯ 10 independent samples, averaged over both hemispheres, mean࣯ ±࣯ STD, ***p࣯ <࣯ 0.001; two-sided unpaired t-test). 

2.3.2 The cerebellar nuclear pathway is necessary for cerebellum-driven M1-S1 coherence, but both nuclear and cortical pathways are necessary to maintain balanced M1–S1 coherence across frequency bands 

Besides gamma-band power, we explore how M1-S1 gamma-band coherence during whisking is affected by processing within the cerebellum, i.e., isolating possible effects due to the connections between sensorimotor cortex and cerebellum. To that end, we asked how the cortical and nuclear cerebellar pathways influenced gamma-band coherence, not only in the sensorimotor cortex, but also between the PrV, i.e., the input region to the cerebellum, and CN, the output cerebellar region towards the sensorimotor thalamocortical loops. We compared those two coherence effects for the CONTROL 

condition and the two lesions disrupting the direct and indirect pathways in the cerebellum ( MOStoCN 

and PCtoCN , respectively). The two lesions had distinct effects on cerebellar input-output and M1-S1 gamma-band coherence (Fig. R5). Removal of excitatory connections from mossy fibers ( MOStoCN ) decreased cerebellar input-output coherence, and M1-S1 coherence to a level similar to the one with inactivation of the cerebellum (Fig. R1B), whereas removal of inhibitory connections from Purkinje cells ( PCtoCN ) increased both coherences. When examining gamma-to-theta coherence ratio, both lesions reduced cerebellar input-output and M1-S1 values. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Figure R5. Gamma-band (top panels) and gamma-to-theta (bottom panels) coherence for PrV-CN (cerebellar input-output; PrV: principal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal, CN: cerebellar nuclei) and M1-S1 in CONTROL and with separate ablations of synaptic inputs to the deep cerebellar nuclei (PCtoCN: inactivating the indirect inhibitory projection from Purkinje cells (PC) to cerebellar nuclei excitatory neurons (CNe), MOStoCN: inactivating the direct excitatory projection from mossy fibers (MOS) to CNe). Bar plots and error bars respectively show the mean and standard deviation over 10 simulations, each one averaged across both hemispheres, with comparisons between CONTROL and each lesion condition (*p࣯ <࣯ 0.05, **p࣯ <࣯ 0.01, ***p࣯ <࣯ 0.001; independent-samples two-sided unpaired t-test, FDR-corrected over all lesion conditions). 

To assess the role of cerebellar output’s baseline and amplitude changes to the coherence effect, we run simulations also without normalization of the cerebellar output. Gamma-band coherence trends across conditions remained evident in these simulations (Fig. Suppl. 2). Therefore, observed changes in coherence were independent of the lesion-induced changes in average cerebellar output activity — increased for inhibitory PCtoCN lesion and decreased for excitatory MOStoCN lesion. However, the effect on gamma-to-theta coherence ratio was masked by changes in the cerebellar nuclei output activity in non-normalized simulations. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

2.3.3 Molecular layer inhibition regulates Purkinje cell gamma-band dynamics without affecting M1-S1 coherence 

Recent experimental evidence points out that Purkinje cells can generate gamma-band oscillations supposedly thanks to molecular layer inhibition (De Zeeuw et al., 2008; Middleton et al., 2008). However, it is not known whether MLI inhibition also impacts cerebellar gamma-band coherence, and cortical gamma-band coherence indirectly through the cerebellar nuclei output. To address this question in our model, we run whole-brain co-simulations in two SNN lesion conditions: (i) directly inactivating MLI to Purkinje cell inhibition ( MLItoPC ) and (ii) inactivating self-inhibition in the molecular layer (MLItoMLI ) to analyze its indirect effect on Purkinje cell dynamics. Independently from the normalization of the cerebellar output, removing inhibition to Purkinje cells (MLItoPC) significantly decreased PC (confirming literature (Middleton et al., 2008)) and CN gamma-band power relative to mossy fibers, while lesioning the self-inhibition in the molecular layer ( MLItoMLI )had no significant effect (Fig. Suppl. 3A). When examining coherence between cerebellar in- and output, the MLItoPC lesion caused decreased coherence in the gamma band but, when transferring the cerebellar output to the rest of the brain, these changes in coherence were not sufficient to affect sensory and motor cortices. Self-inhibition in the molecular layer had no significant impact on gamma-band power and coherence (Fig. Suppl. 3B). This suggests that while MLI inhibition is important for whisker movements during sensory-evoked whisking (Brown et al., 2025), it might be less crucial for sensorimotor integration during free whisking. On the other hand, gamma-to-theta coherence increased inside the cerebellum with MLItoPC and MLItoMLI 

lesion, but decreased in M1-S1, even if – as for absolute coherence – with no statistical significance. 

2.3.4 Cerebellar circuit elements differentially contribute to gamma-band power and coherence 

When considering the effects of all lesions on gamma-band power and coherence together (Table T1), our results show that the lesions impact differently these measures. Regarding gamma power, it generally drops in the cerebellum for all lesions except for the case of the MLItoMLI lesion, this effect being more prominent for MOStoCN and PCtoCN lesions. Coherence, though, drops mainly for the direct pathway lesion (MOStoCN ). For the indirect pathway lesions, coherence drops only for the MLItoPC one -to a lesser extent and only within cerebellum-, whereas it increases for the PCtoCN lesion and it is unaffected for the MLItoMLI one. Therefore, gamma power and coherence seem functionally distinct in our model: a drop in local gamma power does not always mean the network becomes less coherent; in cases like the PCtoCN lesion, the network actually becomes more synchronized despite lower gamma power. On the other hand, changes in cerebellar input-output coherence (both computed between the whisking input region – PrV – and the CN region (Table T1), and between mossy fibers and CNe activities inside the SNN – Fig. Suppl. 4) and M1-S1 coherence occurred in the same direction, with the only difference that in some cases they did not transfer to sensorimotor cortex. Lesion PC gamma-band power ratio 

CN gamma-band power ratio 

PrV-CN (cereb input-output) gamma-band COH 

M1-S1 gamma-band COH 

MOStoCN ↓ (-4.5) ↓ (-37.1) ↓ (-6.2) ↓ (-5.2) 

PCtoCN = ↓ (-28.5) ↑ (+2.5) ↑ (+1.8) 

MLItoPC ↓ (-1.7) ↓ (-4) ↓ (-1.3) =

MLItoMLI = = = =          

> Table T1. Summary of effects of the lesions on PC and CN gamma-band power relative to mossy fibers, on cerebellar input-output coherence, and M1-S1 coherence in gamma band. ↓, ↑ and = indicate significantly lower, significantly higher and non-significantly different, respectively, compared to
> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

CONTROL. Values in brackets are the Cohen’s distances quantifying the effect size of each significantly different comparison. 

We then focused on the input to CNe lesions, which are the ones significantly changing M1-S1 gamma-band coherence. We computed the Cross-Spectral Density (CSD) between mossy fibers and CNe (𝐶𝑂𝐻 ௫௬ = ห𝑃 ௫௬ หଶ ൫𝑃 ௫𝑃 ௬ ൯ൗ , with ห𝑃 ௫௬ ห being the magnitude of the CSD). This quantity provides a measure of global – power and coherence combined – changes between mossy fibers and CNe oscillations that are relevant for brain oscillations and behavior downstream to the cerebellum during sensorimotor integration. Both lesions to CN inputs decreased CSD magnitude in the gamma band (Fig. R6). 

Figure R6. Cross-spectral density between mossy fibers and CNe population activity. (Left) Cross-spectral density magnitude across frequencies for CONTROL and CN input lesion conditions, represented as mean ± STD of 10 simulation runs for each condition, averaging over hemispheres. The gamma band is highlighted as the grey area. (Right) Average CSD magnitude (|Pxy|) in the gamma band with comparisons between CONTROL and each lesion condition (***p࣯ <࣯ 0.001; independent-samples two-sided unpaired t-test, FDR-corrected over all lesion conditions). 

2.3.5 Changes in cerebellar spiking activity with the microcircuit lesions 

Exploiting the higher granularity of the SNN model, we also analysed mossy fibers (MOS), PC and CNe spiking activity in the cerebellar network, to identify microscale changes underlying the observed alterations of gamma-band power, coherence and CSD with the input to CNe lesions. To understand the spiking mechanisms underlying changes in population gamma power, we extracted measures of intra-population spiking activity, i.e. the Phase-Locking Value (PLV) (Lowet et al., 2016) between the spikes of each CN excitatory neuron CNe and the CNe population firing rate signal in the gamma band, and the pairwise correlation of CNe spike trains as a measure of intra-population synchronization. The PLV of CNe was significantly decreased in both CN input lesions (Fig. Suppl. 5A), which is reflected in the changes in gamma-band power for the CNe population (Table T1): with these lesions, individual CNe spikes become less synchronized to the population gamma rhythm, decreasing the gamma-band power. Also, the overall CNe population synchronization decreased in both lesions (Fig. Suppl. 5B). To explain the changes of oscillatory coupling between cerebellar input and output populations, as measured through coherence and CSD (Table T1), we measured the PLV between CNe spikes and the mossy fiber firing rate signal filtered in the gamma band, showing that it was significantly reduced in MOStoCN and PCtoCN lesions (Fig. R7A). This reduction suggests that excitation and inhibition to the CNe are important for phase-locking of cerebellar output spikes to the gamma band component of the input signal, impacting gamma-band power and synchronization combined, as observed through similar changes in CSD (Fig. R6). Instead, cerebellar input-output population synchronization measured through cross-correlation of firing rate signals and pairwise cross-correlation of spike trains between mossy fibers and CNe, decreases 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

with the MOStoCN lesion and increases with the PCtoCN lesion (Fig. Suppl. 5B-C), explaining the observed changes in coherence with lesions to CN input (Fig. R5-top) (Table T1), which go in the same direction. 

Figure R7. Cerebellar circuit spiking synchronization measures. (A) PLV of CNe spikes with respect to mossy fiber (MOS) firing rate in the gamma band, as mean ± STD across 10 simulation runs per condition. (B) Normalized cross-correlation between mossy fiber and CNe activity filtered in the gamma band, in CONTROL and lesion conditions, represented as mean ± STD of 10 simulation runs for each condition, averaging hemispheres. (C) Cerebellar spiking synchrony measured as pairwise spike train correlation between mossy fibers and CNe spikes in time bins of 20ms. Bar plots and error bars respectively show the mean and standard deviation over 10 simulations, each one averaged across the two hemispheres, with comparisons between CONTROL and each lesion condition (***p࣯ <࣯ 0.001; independent-samples two-sided unpaired t-test, FDR-corrected over all lesion conditions). 

# 3. Discussion 

Our results show the potential of co-simulations as a unifying tool to study multiscale brain activity underlying behaviors and suggest possible cerebellar circuit mechanisms that are crucial for driving cortical dynamics during sensorimotor integration. The cerebellum proved responsible for the increased coherence in the gamma band between sensory and motor cortices in animal experiments during whisking, a typical sensorimotor integration task. Here, we first show that this key role of the cerebellum in shaping cortical dynamics derives from both the cerebro-cerebellar recurrent connections and the internal spiking processing occurring within the cerebellar circuit, providing new insights into underlying mechanisms of sensorimotor integration. In particular, we found that synaptic inputs to the cerebellar nuclei (from mossy fibers and Purkinje cells) differentially impact oscillations’ power and coherence by regulating the synchronization of spikes within the cerebellar nuclei and cortex. While previous cerebellar models bridging single neuron activity to sensorimotor behavior in neurorobotic control loops used the cerebellum as a stand-alone module, here for the first time we are linking a realistic cerebellar spiking neural network with whole-brain dynamics and sensorimotor signals. As a result, our model combines several elements of complexity: multiple recurrent loops both in the whole-brain and in the SNN, multiple scales (from the neural mass activity to the spikes of single neurons) and an SNN with single neurons exhibiting spontaneous firing and oscillations. Together, these elements make the model complex and highly nonlinear. For example, cutting a connection does not necessarily bring about a decrease in power, or lesioning different pathways alters the gamma-to-theta power ratio in specific ways. In addition, the recurrent loops between the mean-field model and the SNN cause lesions in the SNN to impact the rest of the brain and then, indirectly, modulate the SNN itself through changes in mossy fiber oscillatory activity. This phenomenon explains e.g. why MOStoCN 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

lesions affect PC properties (e.g. Fig. R4). In addition, in this complex model, the dynamical properties of neural population activity are emerging properties, not constrained during fitting (see Par. 2.2.), but resulting from the data-driven reconstruction of the SNN (De Schepper et al., 2022). 

# 3.1 Cerebellar dynamics during sensorimotor integration 

Modulation of the gamma-band by the cerebellum is akin with fast dynamics of its circuit (D’Angelo, 2011). The cerebellum reacts to the inputs in about 10 ms, i.e., 1–2 orders of magnitude faster than the cerebral cortex (this is largely due to the feed-forward rather than recurrent organization of the cerebellar circuit; (Bower, 2002)). Moreover, cerebellar control on movements operates in the millisecond range, reaching a precision unattainable in cerebro-cortical circuits (Timmann et al., 1999). In this respect, and because of its ability to coordinate movement sequences, the cerebellum has been considered a timing machine (Eccles, 1973; Eccles et al., 1967). Regarding power, we demonstrate that the cerebellum acts as a ‘transformer’ of frequencies, enhancing gamma power along its circuit and decreasing theta power. In our model, gamma-band power matched experimental observations of cerebellar microcircuit oscillations, indicating that the SNN reproduces emergent physiological dynamics not explicitly targeted during parameter optimization and is suitable for studying dynamical phenomena like changes in coherence. 1. Both PC and CNe exhibit gamma-band oscillations (Fig. R3) (Middleton et al., 2008; Person & Raman, 2011). 2. Both mossy and PC inputs to CNe are necessary to sustain gamma-band oscillations in the CN relative to the input (Fig. R4B), confirming that input signal processing in the cerebellar cortex, conveyed to the CN through PC, is essential for controlling the cerebellar output in the gamma band, as previously shown in literature (Person & Raman, 2011). 3. MLI inhibition contributes to gamma-band oscillations in PC (Fig. Suppl. 3A) (Middleton et al., 2008). Besides these validations of previous experimental data, our model also offers novel insights into cerebellar processing. While Purkinje cells show increased gamma and theta power relative to the mossy fibers, we observe an increase in gamma and decrease in theta power at the CNe, at the output of the cerebellum (Fig. R3). When lesioning the connection between mossy fibers and CNe, we find that this also significantly reduces the gamma power increase in the Purkinje cells, though with small effect size, probably due to a recurrent loop effect involving other brain regions being impacted by this cerebellar pathway lesion. Thus, both cerebellar pathways are important for the transforming power of the ‘cerebellar engine’. Regarding coherence, our results point to different roles of cerebellar circuit elements in not only transferring but also diversifying the cerebellar input signal towards the cortex. The direct transmission of input signals from mossy fibers to CNe is necessary to keep cerebellar input-output, and M1-S1, activity synchronized at control levels (Fig. R5; R7). In the indirect pathway through PCs, different mechanisms occur. Inactivation of the inhibitory connection from PC to CNe increases cerebellar and sensorimotor cortex coherence (Fig. R5) and synchronization between mossy fibers and CNe (Fig. R7) .

This result suggests that PC inhibition to CN might be more relevant for fine tuning of the movement (e.g. velocity or acceleration adjustment) (S. Wu et al., 2024) than for overall sensorimotor integration, during baseline exploration conditions or early adaptation. In these phases, inhibitory PC input plays a crucial role in shaping the activity of CN neurons, specifically by promoting the decorrelation of their firing patterns (Fig. R7) with respect to mossy fibers, which enhances the information capacity and processing efficiency of the cerebellum. By reducing correlations in CN activity, Purkinje inhibition ensures that the CN output is not simply a redundant copy of the input, allowing for more efficient encoding of motor or cognitive information. The ability of PC to decorrelate CN activity is essential for motor learning, as it allows the cerebellar output to precisely reflect the direction of stimuli and coordinate movement. On the other hand, in late adaptation conditions, the activity of PC gets reduced due to long-term depression plasticity mechanisms. Our model predicts that in this condition, where the 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

CN receive less inhibitory input from PC activity, cerebellar input-output and, indirectly, M1-S1 coherence increase. Therefore, release of CN from PC inhibition during motor learning might be important not just for precise adaptation of movement kinematics (Heiney et al., 2014), but also for synchronization across brain regions, potentially improving the learning and binding process that is essential to allow sensorimotor prediction. When analysing gamma relative to theta coherence (Fig. R5), both inputs to the cerebellar nuclei are required to maintain balanced coherence across frequency bands, in the cerebellar circuit and in the sensorimotor cortex. When the PC input to CNe is intact, MLI inhibition is necessary to keep cerebellar input and output synchronized, even if this does not impact M1-S1 synchronization (Fig. Suppl. 3B-C). Thus, probably MLI inhibition is more important for cerebellar communication with other subcortical structures than for sensorimotor cortical control (Gaffield & Christie, 2017), or more important during reflexive whisking (Brown et al., 2025) or maybe its mechanism is simply acting on other frequency bands than the investigated ones. 

# 3.2 Caveats and limitations 

3.2.1 Limitations of the AMBCA 

Here, we aimed at investigating a sensorimotor integration task, where cerebello-thalamo-cortical loops with sensory and motor cortices play a key role. These have been properly mapped in the AMBCA, but recent experiments have revealed the importance of cerebellar projections also on cortical areas ascribed to high cognitive functions, like associative areas. In humans, more than 80% of cerebellar connections go to associative areas (mostly in the prefrontal cortex) rather than to the sensorimotor areas of the cortex. These fiber tracts originate largely from the ansiform lobule and reach the prefrontal cortex through the dentate nucleus and then the dorsal thalamic nuclei (Palesi et al., 2015). In rodents, on a smaller scale, the organization seems quite similar (Ferguson & Gao, 2018; Kelly et al., 2020; Pisano et al., 2021). These loops are currently not properly remapped on the AMBCA: by changing the whole-brain connectome to better account for them, the present model could be used to investigate the impact of cerebellar processing on cortical dynamics during cognitive tasks. 

3.2.2 Normalization of the cerebellar output 

For all lesions, the manipulations of controlling/normalizing for rate and amplitude of the cerebellar output were very successful (no significant changes in the cerebellar input and output average firing rates – Fig. Suppl. 2), allowing to test for the isolated role of a change in spectral content of the cerebellar output, without alteration of the average and peak firing rate. 

3.2.3 Interface 

The output from the cerebellar spiking neural network is transferred to the rest of the brain through the NEST to TVB interface, which unavoidably filters the cerebellar signal. The fact that they are consistent (same direction or no change in M1-S1 with changes in cerebellum input-output coherence – Table T1) shows that the interface is not “destructing” cerebellar internal processing, but this filtering might influence our results and could explain the cases where significant changes in cerebellar input-output coherence have reduced effect on cortical coherence (e.g. in the MLItoPC lesion). 

3.2.4 Whisking task 

We modelled the whisking task by increasing connections along a minimal whisking pathway, by a pathway gain, without parallel loops. With more parallel loops, changes in cerebellar input-output coherence might be compensated by other parts of the pathways, differently impacting M1-S1 coherence, and should be addressed in future implementations of the model. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

# 3.3 Impact and future work 

3.3.1 Improvements of the multiscale model 

Future work will focus on improving the biological grounding and predictive power of the model. In its current form, validation was limited to reproducing power spectral density and coherence in M1 and S1 from a single experimental study, and broader validation against multimodal empirical data, larger cohorts, and cross-species datasets will be essential, particularly to support translation to human studies. At the modelling level, refinements of the thalamocortical node, such as a more explicit representation of specific and non-specific nuclei, could enhance the realism of cerebellothalamocortical loop dynamics. In addition, while the neural mass model was chosen for its simplicity and ability to reproduce nested oscillations, more detailed formulations could better capture the generation and interaction of frequency bands, including the coupling between subcortical and cortical rhythms. Finally, incorporating adaptive and homeostatic mechanisms, particularly in response to perturbations such as cerebellar lesions, may help account for experimentally observed stability in spectral features and improve the model’s ability to reproduce compensatory network dynamics. 

3.3.2 Co-simulations of behavioral tasks 

The current study is among the first to modify a TVMB whole-brain network to account for a specific task by strengthening a minimal whisking-related pathway. Future work could further refine this architecture based on experimental evidence and embed it into closed-loop neurorobotic controllers (Antonietti et al., 2022) to investigate whisking and other sensorimotor tasks involving cortico-cerebellar loops in embodied settings. While we focused on free whisking, the framework could be extended to reflexive whisking, where also climbing fibers (the other input to the cerebellar circuit) play a crucial role (Romano et al., 2018). In the present model, inputs were simplified by converging onto mossy fibers, as spatial propagation within the cerebellar circuit was beyond the scope of this study. Future work in simulating other behaviors could incorporate differentiated input pathways to distinct mossy fiber populations, enabling investigation of how the granular layer integrates multiple sensory modalities. While we focused on targeted virtual interventions known to influence gamma power and coherence inside the cerebellar circuit, a future extension of our work should involve investigations of virtual lesions to the granular layer as this part of the cerebellum has been demonstrated to be crucial for theta-band oscillations. 

3.3.3 Investigation of brain diseases 

Beyond its mechanistic insights, this multiscale framework provides a tool to investigate disorders in which cerebellar dysfunction alters large-scale brain dynamics. In humans, cerebellar damage, such as in cerebellar stroke (Vecchio et al., 2019), has been shown to induce widespread changes in brain dynamics and functional connectivity, highlighting the role of the cerebellum in shaping distributed network activity. In parallel, animal models of neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism, have identified specific alterations in cerebellar circuitry, including changes in Purkinje cell excitability, synaptic transmission, and microcircuit organization, which have been linked to deficits in motor learning and adaptive behavior. However, the impact of these alterations on whole-brain dynamics remains poorly understood. Conversely, clinical studies in humans consistently report alterations in large-scale functional connectivity (Olivito et al., 2017; Riva et al., 2013), but lack mechanistic resolution. By bridging these scales, our model links cellular and circuit-level perturbations to systems-level dynamics, helping reconcile findings across species. This framework could be extended to disease-specific perturbations to investigate how cerebellar dysfunction shapes cortical coherence and behavior in neurological and neurodegenerative disorders. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

# 4. Methods 

# 4.1 Whole-brain connectivity 

4.1.1 Generating the connectome 

In TVMB, the strengths and lengths of the connections among the nodes are derived from tract tracing techniques. The current TVMB connectome was based on the Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas (AMBCA) (Oh et al., 2014), and extracted following the code provided by (Melozzi et al., 2017). For each hemisphere, all 298 available areas were included, with the ratio between projection and injection density as connection strength, in a grid volume of 100-μm-side voxels (Oh et al., 2014). The left-hemispheric connectome was built mirroring the right one, given the high lateral symmetry in mouse brain connections (Calabrese et al., 2015), resulting in a connectome with 596 regions. We set self-connections to zero since the internal region dynamics were covered by the below-described neural mass models. Tract lengths were calculated as the Euclidean distance between the centers of each pair of regions, taken from the Allen Software Development kit (Allen SDK, https://allensdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), similarly to (Melozzi et al., 2017). 

4.1.2 Merging regions into major structures and distributing specific thalami 

Regions in the connectome were assigned to one of twelve major structures following the Allen reference ontology (thalamus , cortical subplate , hippocampal formation , hypothalamus , medulla ,

midbrain , pallidum , striatum , olfactory areas , cerebellum , isocortex , pons (connectivity.brain-map.org; (Dong, 2008; Oh et al., 2014)). Considering our focus on rodent whisking, regions not expected to be involved in whisking pathways according to literature references (Bosman et al., 2011) were merged into their respective major structure in each hemisphere, thus reducing the complexity and size of the whole-brain network, without losing explanatory power for our specific research question. For the thalamus , we distinguished between specific and non-specific thalamic nuclei (Van Der Werf et al., 2002; White, 1979). For the specific ones, we merged the ventral anterior-lateral nucleus and the 

ventral posteromedial nucleus regions. Then we substituted the merged regions with 43 specific thalamic nuclei nodes per hemisphere with the same center point coordinates, each one connected to one isocortical region unilaterally, forming thalamocortical loops (Guillery et al., 1998), as well as to a corresponding reticular thalamic part. For the non-specific thalamus, the midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei were merged (Van Der Werf et al., 2002) and connected to all regions (except for specific thalamic ones) based on the connectome. For merged regions, the connectivity strengths were summed up, while tract lengths were computed as averages of the original connecting tract lengths, weighted by the respective connection weight. As a result, we obtained a whole-brain connectome with 214 regions: (i) the isocortex , i.e., 43 unmerged isocortical regions per hemisphere, including the primary motor area (M1), and the primary somatosensory area-barrel field (S1), each one with its own specific thalamic nucleus; (ii) the non-isocortex for the whisking subnetwork (Fig. R1A-B), i.e., selected regions from pons (pons motor , pons behavioral , principal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal (PrV) from the pons sensory , and rest of the 

pons sensory ), medulla and midbrain [inferior olivary complex (IO), spinal nucleus of the trigeminal (sensory afferences) (SpV), facial motor nucleus (motor efferences) (FMN), and the superior colliculus (motor related) (SC), and the rest merged]; (iii) the cerebellum , with the ansiform lobule (AN) selected from cerebellar cortex , and the rest merged, and all cerebellar nuclei (CN) (dentate, interposed, fastigial) merged; (iv) the major non-isocortical structures outside of the whisking circuit merged, i.e. 

cortical subplate , hippocampal formation , hypothalamus, pallidum, striatum, olfactory areas. 

4.1.3 Connectivity weights’ normalization and delays’ lower bound 

The resulting connectivity matrix weights were log-transformed and normalized (Amico & Goñi, 2018; Fornito et al., 2016; Triebkorn et al., 2024) following: 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

𝑤 ௜௝ = 1 + 𝑙𝑛൫ 𝑤 ௜௝ ᇱ /𝑚𝑖𝑛{ 𝐖 ᇱ}൯ for 𝑤 ௜௝ ᇱ > 0 and 0 otherwise, where 𝑤 ௜௝ ᇱ and 𝑤 ௜௝ are the weights before and after normalization, respectively, and 𝑚𝑖𝑛{ 𝐖 ᇱ} denotes the minimum non-zero value of the connectivity matrix before normalization. We further divided the resulting weights by their 99 th percentile. Transmission speed along connections was set to 3 m/s, and a lower bound was set for tract lengths, such that the minimum delay was equal to one TVMB integration time step (0.1 ms), resulting in the time delays 𝜏 ௜௝ for all node pairs. 

4.1.4 Further connectivity processing 

After normalization, all weights between isocortical and their respective specific thalamic nodes were set to 1. All connections between specific thalamic nodes and all other nodes were set to 0, except for whisking-specific connections, i.e., the contralateral connections from SpV to the specific thalamic nucleus of S1, and from CN to the specific thalamic nuclei of M1 and of S1 (Bosman et al., 2010, 2011). Subsequently, two whisker nodes (left and right “whiskers”) were added to close the sensorimotor loop between the brain and the neural periphery, modeling the whisking behavior. All connectivity for these two nodes was set to 0 except for the ipsilateral incoming connections from FMN (conveying the motor command from M1) and outgoing connections to SpV (for proprioception), which were both set to 1. The respective time delays were set to 1 ms. 

4.1.5 Whisking-specific pathway 

For the simulated whisking activity to be transmitted via the sensori-motor loop passing through the cerebellum, connectivity weights along a minimal whisking-specific pathway were strengthened (Fig. R1B) based on the whisking-specific subnetwork of (Bosman et al., 2010): (a) from M1 to FMN contralaterally and (b) from FMN to “whisker” ipsilaterally for the motor command (Sreenivasan et al., 2016), (c) from “whisker” to SpV ipsilaterally for proprioception, (d) from SpV to PrV, (e) from PrV to AN and (f) from AN to CN ipsilaterally, for the path via cerebellum, and, finally, (g) from the CN to the specific thalamic nuclei of M1 and (h) to the specific thalamic nucleus of S1, contralaterally, for the sensori-motor loop to close. The chosen connections were strengthened following 𝑔 ௜௝ 𝑤 ௜௝ , where 𝑤 ௜௝ is the connection weight between source region 𝑗 and target region 𝑖 and 𝑔 ௜௝ ∈ [1, 99] is the gain, which was constrained such that 𝑤 ௜௝ ᇱ 𝐷 ௜⁄ ≤ 0.99 , where 𝐷 ௜ = ∑ 𝑤 ௜௝ ௝ is the indegree of target region 𝑖 . In all cases, except for the last two connections (g) and (h), we reduced all weights of the remaining connections towards the target region 𝑖 to maintain the same indegree 𝐷 ௜ .

# 4.2 The multiscale Virtual Mouse Brain 

4.2.1 TVMB model dynamics 

The typical summary equation of a stochastic TVB model (Ritter et al., 2013; Sanz-Leon et al., 2015) including additive noise is  

> ௗx೔(௧) ௗ௧

= 𝑓൫ x௜(𝑡)൯ + 𝐺 ௜ ∑ 𝑤 ௜௝ 𝑔 ቀ x௜(𝑡), x௝൫𝑡 − 𝜏 ௜௝ ൯ቁ ே௝ + η௜(𝑡) (1) where x௜(𝑡) denotes the vector of state variables describing the dynamics of a region node 𝑖 , 𝑓( .) is the function of the node dynamics, 𝑔( .) is the coupling function between any pair of nodes 𝑖 and 𝑗 , 𝑤 ௜௝ is the coupling strength and 𝜏 ௜௝ the transmission delay from node 𝑗 to node 𝑖 , G௜ is a parameter scaling the coupling for each node 𝑖 and, finally, η௜(𝑡) is an optional vector of stochastic inputs, typically white noise 

η௜(𝑡)~𝑁𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙(0, σ𝒊 ), i.e., samples of a normal distribution with mean zero and standard deviation for each state variable given by the vector σ𝒊 .The neural mass model used for TVMB region nodes here was a modification of the Cortico-Thalamic Wilson-Cowan (CTWC) model from (Griffiths et al., 2020; Griffiths & Lefebvre, 2019), which was based on previous models of (Breakspear et al., 2006; Freyer et al., 2011; Robinson et al., 2001). This model allows to reproduce biologically plausible thalamocortical loop dynamics of rodent sensorimotor cortices (Marshall et al., 2016), exhibiting oscillations in the gamma band modulated by oscillations in lower-

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

frequency bands (e.g. theta for rodent models (Griffiths et al., 2020)). The models’ equations for different kinds of nodes are as follows. Thalamocortical loops include isocortical nodes with excitatory and inhibitory populations (Fig. R1C): 

𝜏 ா

𝑑𝐸 ௜

𝑑𝑡 =

−𝐸 ௜ (𝑡) + 𝑤 ாா 𝐹൫𝐸 ௜(𝑡)൯ + 𝑤 ூா ௜ 𝐹൫𝐼 ௜ (𝑡)൯ + 𝑤 ௌா 𝐹൫𝑆 ௜(𝑡 − 𝜏 ௌா )൯ + 𝐺 ∑ 𝑤 ௜௝ 𝐹 ቀ𝐸 ௝൫𝑡 − 𝜏 ௜௝ ൯ቁ ఫ́ + 𝐼 ா ௜ (2) 

𝜏 ூௗூ ೔ 

> ௗ௧

= −𝐼 ௜ (𝑡) + 𝑤 ாூ 𝐹൫𝐸 ௜(𝑡)൯ + 𝑤 ூூ 𝐹൫𝐼 ௜ (𝑡)൯ + 𝑤 ௌூ 𝐹൫𝑆 ௜ (𝑡 − 𝜏 ௌூ )൯ + 𝐼 ூ (3) and specific thalamic nodes with relay and reticular population: 

𝜏 ௌௗௌ ೔ 

> ௗ௧

= −𝑆 ௜(𝑡) + 𝑤 ோௌ 𝐹൫𝑅 ௜(𝑡 − 𝜏 ோௌ )൯ + 𝑤 ாௌ 𝐹൫𝐸 ௜(𝑡 − 𝜏 ாௌ )൯ + 𝐼 ௌ (4) 

𝜏 ோௗோ ೔ 

> ௗ௧

= −𝑅 ௜(𝑡) + 𝑤 ௌோ 𝐹൫𝑆 ௜(𝑡 − 𝜏 ௌோ )൯ + 𝑤 ாோ 𝐹൫𝐸 ௜ (𝑡 − 𝜏 ாோ )൯ + 𝐼 ோ (5) 

𝐸 ௜, 𝐼 ௜ , 𝑆 ௜ and 𝑅 ௜ represent the state variable names of the excitatory isocortical, inhibitory isocortical, excitatory relay and inhibitory reticular specific thalamic populations, respectively, whereas the index 𝑖 

denotes the isocortical region and the respective connected specific thalamic nucleus. The index 𝑗 

denotes all other regions that are not specific thalamic regions (denoted as “(non-)isocortical” from now on) that form long range connections with an isocortical region 𝑖 .

Non-isocortical nodes include one excitatory and one inhibitory neural population (Fig. R1C): 

𝜏 ாௗா ೔ 

> ௗ௧

= −𝐸 ௜(𝑡) + 𝑤 ாா 𝐹൫𝐸 ௜ (𝑡)൯ + 𝑤 ூா ௜ 𝐹൫𝐼 ௜ (𝑡)൯ + 𝐺 ∑ 𝑤 ௜௝ 𝐹 ቀ𝐸 ௝൫𝑡 − 𝜏 ௜௝ ൯ቁ ఫ́ + 𝐼 ா ௜ (6) 

𝜏 ூௗூ ೔ 

> ௗ௧

= −𝐼 ௜ (𝑡) + 𝑤 ாூ 𝐹൫𝐸 ௜(𝑡)൯ + 𝑤 ூூ 𝐹൫𝐼 ௜ (𝑡)൯ + 𝐼 ூ (7) where 𝐸 ௜, and 𝐼 ௜ stand for the state variables of the excitatory and inhibitory non-isocortical populations, respectively, and the index 𝑗 denotes all other (non-)isocortical regions that form long-range connections with a non-isocortical region 𝑖 (including the ipsilateral “Whisker” node for the SpV proprioception). Finally, whisker nodes include one excitatory neural population per hemisphere 𝑊 ௜ with dynamics 

𝜏 ௐௗௐ ೔ 

> ௗ௧

= −𝑊 ௜(𝑡) + 𝐺 ௐ ∑ 𝑤 ௜௝ 𝐹 ቀ𝐸 ௝൫𝑡 − 𝜏 ௜௝ ൯ቁ ఫ́ + 𝐼 ௐ (8) where 𝑊 ௜ receives only one long-range connection from the ipsilateral facial motor nucleus conveying the motor command. In all equations (2-8), 𝐹(𝑥) = భభశ೐ షഁ (ೣష഑ ) is a sigmoidal activation function, 𝐼 ா ௜ , 𝐼 ூ , 𝐼 ௌ, 𝐼 ோ and 𝐼 ௐ are constant baseline current parameters, 𝜏 ௲, 𝜏 ூ, 𝜏 ௌ, 𝜏 ோ and 𝜏 ௐ are time scale constants, 𝐺 and 𝐺 ௐ (specific for whisker nodes) denote long-range coupling scaling parameters, and, finally, all other 𝑤 ௑௒ and 𝜏 ௑௒ 

parameters denote connectivity weights and delays, respectively, between populations 𝑋 and 𝑌 , where 

𝑋 and 𝑌 take values following the state variables ( 𝐸 , 𝐼 , 𝑆 and 𝑅 ). In that respect, all TVMB long-range connectivity weights and delays between each isocortical region and its respective specific thalamic nuclei were overwritten with the respective 𝑤 ௑௒ and 𝜏 ௑௒ of the original thalamocortical neural mass model of (Griffiths et al., 2020; Griffiths & Lefebvre, 2019). 

4.2.2 Scaling excitation – inhibition balance with indegree connectivity 

To prevent over-excitation and achieve biologically plausible regional activities for a wide range of values of the global coupling 𝐺 , we implemented a mechanism inspired by feedback inhibition control (Deco et al., 2014; Schirner et al., 2018) based on modulating the inhibitory weight from the inhibitory population to the excitatory one, thus simulating a local regulation of synaptic strength balance. Therefore, we customized the baseline current parameter of excitatory populations ( 𝐼 ா ) as well as the local inhibitory weight ( 𝑤 ூா ) of each region, by scaling them based on an individual indegree scaler (Ódor et al., 2022; Rocha et al., 2018): 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

𝐼𝑆 ௜ = ஽೔ି ୫୧୬         

> ೔{஽ ೔}ටభಿ ∑ቀ஽ ೔ିభಿ ∑஽೔ಿ ೔సభ ቁಿ೔సభ

(9) 

𝑁 is the number of all isocortical and non-isocortical regions (i.e., excluding specific thalamic regions) and min  

> ௜

{𝐷 ௜ } the minimum value across all 𝐷 ௜ . The final parameters’ values for each region 𝑖 are given by the equations: 

𝐼 ா ௜ = 𝐼 ா ൫1 + 𝐶 ூಶ𝐼𝑆 ௜ ൯ (10) 

𝑤 ூா ௜ = 𝑤 ூா ൫1 + 𝐶 ௐ಺ಶ 𝐼𝑆 ௜ ൯ (11) where 𝐼 ா = -0.35 and 𝑤 ூா = -3.0 as in the original model, whereas 𝐶 ூಶ and 𝐶 ௐ಺ಶ are additional scaling parameters, which we fit to empirical data separately (see par. 4.6.1). 

# 4.3 Spiking neural network model 

For multiscale co-simulations, the olivocerebellar circuit within the whole-brain network was modelled and simulated as a Spiking Neural Network (SNN) (Fig. R1D), including (i) a detailed cerebellar cortex as the ansiform lobule (AN) (Chen et al., 2016), reconstructed based on geometrical and morphological features of local microcircuitry (De Schepper et al., 2022) and (ii) a corresponding model of CN and IO circuits, to form an olivocerebellar microcomplex (Geminiani et al., 2024). In each layer, the main neural populations were included, namely granule cells (GrC) and Golgi cells (GoC) receiving inputs from mossy fibers (MOS), molecular layer interneurons (MLI) including basket cells (BC) and stellate cells (SC), Purkinje cells (PC), CN excitatory (CNe) and inhibitory (CNi) neurons, IO neurons (Fig. R1D). Single neurons were modelled as Extended-Generalized Leaky Integrate and Fire (E-GLIF) capturing the complex non-linear dynamics of cerebellar neurons, with parameters optimized to fit population-specific electro-responsive properties in (Geminiani, Casellato, et al., 2019; Geminiani et al., 2018). Synapses were modeled as alpha-shaped conductance-based, with weights set to reproduce baseline 

in vivo activity (Rancz et al., 2007; ten Brinke et al., 2015, 2017) , and time constants and connection delays from literature (Cavallari et al., 2014; Geminiani et al., 2024; Geminiani, Pedrocchi, et al., 2019). Further, neurons in the PrV (from pons sensory ) were modelled as spiking units, relaying spike trains from the whisking input regions to the corresponding mossy fibers also modelled as relay units in the olivocerebellar SNN. The NEural Simulation Tool (NEST3) was used to implement and simulate the spiking network (Hahne et al., 2021). 

# 4.4 Inter-scale interface models 

Co-simulation of the multiscale model requires interfaces for the transformation and exchange of activity between the TVMB neural mass nodes and the NEST SNN. For the TVMB to NEST interface, the TVMB’s total large scale coupling activity 𝐶 ௜(𝑡) is converted to a rate via a linear transformation 

𝑟 ௜் ௏ெ஻ →ோௌ் (𝑡) = 𝑤 ் ௏ெ஻ →ோௌ் 𝐶 ௜(𝑡) , where 𝐶 ௜(𝑡) = 𝐺 ∑ 𝑤 ௜௝ 𝐹 ቀ𝐸 ௝൫𝑡 − 𝜏 ௜௝ ൯ቁ ௝ , 𝑖 is the index of the SNN input regions (neurons in the PrV and mossy fibers in the AN of each hemisphere), and 𝑗 the index of all (non-)isocortical regions coupling with each one of them, whereas 𝑤 ் ௏ெ஻ →ோௌ் is a weight to be tuned (see par. 4.6.2). This rate is converted to a different spike train for each neuron in the target population of the SNN input regions (Fig. R1D), according to a Poisson process, and delivered with a delay equal to the minimum NEST simulation delay (i.e., 0.05 ms). For the NEST to TVMB interface, the instantaneous average firing 𝑟 ௜ோௌ் →்௏஻ (𝑡) is computed from population spikes for the output population of each brain region modelled as spiking in NEST (Fig. R1D). Then, the TVMB activity 𝐸 ௜(𝑡) for region 

𝑖 is updated via a linear transformation and integration 𝜏 ாௗா ೔(௧) ௗ௧ = −𝐸 ௜(𝑡) + 𝑤 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ 𝑟 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ (𝑡) + 𝑏 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ , acting as a low-pass filter of the spiking activity, using the same integration scheme and time step as for the TVMB simulation (par. 4.5). Parameters 𝑏 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ and 𝑤 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ of the linear transformation are also tuned as explained in par. 4.6.2. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

# 4.5 Simulations 

For all (co-)simulations, a stochastic Euler-Maryuama integration method with a time step of 𝑑𝑡 = 0.1 ms and additive white noise of standard deviation equal to σ ௜ = √2 ∗ 0.0001 ∗ 𝑑𝑡 ≈ 0.00447 was used for the TVMB component of the simulation. Initial conditions for the neural mass TVMB model state variables up to one second in the past were chosen from a normal distribution with mean and standard deviation equal to the baseline currents ( 𝐼 {ா,ூ,ௌ,ோ} ) of each population 𝑖 , i.e., 𝑆𝑉 ௜(𝑡 ଴)~𝑁𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙(𝐼 ௌ௏ , 𝐼 ௌ௏ ), for all times 𝑡 ଴ ∈ [−1000, 0] ms and state variables 𝑆𝑉 ∈ {𝐸, 𝐼, 𝑆, 𝑅} (specifically for the excitatory population 

𝐸 , the mean value of 𝐼 ா over all regions was used), except for the whisker nodes, for which 𝑊 ௜(𝑡 ଴)=0. All source TVMB signals were recorded with a sampling period of 1 ms. For the NEST component of simulations, the integration time step and minimum delay of NEST was set to half the TVMB time step, i.e., 0.05 ms. The membrane potential of each neuron was initialized with 

𝐸 ௅ + 𝑈𝑛𝑖𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚 ቀ𝑉 ௥௘௦௘௧ − 𝐸 ௅, ௏೟೓ ି ா ಽ 

> ଶ

ቁ, where 𝐸 ௅, 𝑉 ௥௘௦௘௧ and 𝑉 ௧௛ are leakage, reset and threshold potential, respectively. For simulations with cerebellar inactivation (cerebOFF), all connections to and from AN, rest of cerebellar cortex, and CN were set to 0, and, in co-simulations the threshold potential of the CNe neurons (output population in the cerebellum) was raised to 𝑉 ௧௛ = −35.0 𝑚𝑉 .

# 4.6 Fitting model parameters and validation 

We performed two kinds of simulations: (a) of the large scale, neural mass TVMB model alone (“TVMB-only”), in which case all cerebellar subcortical regions were modelled identically to the rest of the subcortical regions (see par. 4.2.1), and (b) co-simulations (“Co-sim”) of the multiscale TVMB-NEST model that included the SNN olivocerebellar circuit. 

4.6.1 Dynamical model and whisking task parameters 

Dynamical model parameters 𝐼 ௌ (constant baseline current of the excitatory relay thalamic population), 

𝐶 ூಶ and 𝐶 ௐ಺ಶ (scaling parameters that control the excitation-inhibition balance relative to the connectivity indegree of each brain region) were fit for a range of long-range coupling scaling 𝐺 values ({0.1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10}), using simulation-based inference (SBI). The statistical model included the prior distributions 𝐼 ௌ~𝑁𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙(0.1, 0.1) , 𝐶 ௦௧ ~𝑈𝑛𝑖𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚(0, 2) (i.e., the strength of the scaling), 

𝐶 ௦௣ ~𝑈𝑛𝑖𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚(0, 0.6) (i.e., a parameter splitting the scaling between 𝐼 ா and 𝑊 ூா ), and the equations 

𝐶 ூಶ =𝐶 ௦௣ ∙ 𝐶 ௦௧ and 𝐶 ௐ಺ಶ =൫1 − 𝐶 ௦௣ ൯𝐶 ௦௧ . The fitting target was a vector concatenating the power spectra of M1 and S1 brain regions of both hemispheres, in the range [5, 47] Hz, in steps of 1 Hz, computed with linear interpolation from data points extracted from (Popa et al., 2013) using WebPlotDigitizer 

(https://automeris.io/), and normalized by the sum of powers of all frequencies. A middle range of 𝐺 

([4.0, 8.0]) was selected for further simulations. 

For the whisking task simulations, the pathway gains 𝑔 ௜௝ and whisker node parameters ( 𝐺 ௐ and 𝐼 ௐ)were fitted for the selected range of 𝐺 values. The statistical model included the following prior distributions for each parameter: 𝐼 ௐ ~𝑈𝑛𝑖𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚(−0.7, 0.35) , 𝐺 ௐ~𝑈𝑛𝑖𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚(1, 9) , 𝑔 ௦௧ ~ 𝑈𝑛𝑖𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚(1, 99) 

(i.e., the strength of gains), 𝑔 ௜௡ ~ 𝑈𝑛𝑖𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚(0.0, 1.0) (i.e., scaling specific to the gain of the connection from M1 to FMN), 𝑔 ௢௨௧ ~ 𝑈𝑛𝑖𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚(0.0, 1.0) (i.e., scaling specific to the gain of the connection from CN to the specific thalamic nucleus of M1), and the equations 𝑔 ிெே,ெଵ = 𝑔 ௦௧ +𝑔 ௜௡ (99 − 𝑔 ௦௧ ),

𝑔 ெଵ ௌ௣௘௖.்௛௔௟ .,஼ே = 𝑔 ௢௨௧ 𝑔 ௦௧ , and 𝑔 ௜௝ = 𝑔 ௦௧ for all other connections of the whisking-specific pathway undergoing strengthening. The fitting target was a measure of the normalized drop of gamma band coherence computed as 𝐷𝐶𝑂𝐻 = 〈൫𝐹𝑍(𝐶𝑂𝐻 ைே ) − 𝐹𝑍(𝐶𝑂𝐻 ைிி )൯/𝐹𝑍(𝐶𝑂𝐻 ைே )〉 , where 𝐶𝑂𝐻 denotes the M1-S1 coherence, linearly interpolated for the gamma band frequencies in the range of [25, 60] Hz in steps of 1 Hz from the data extracted from (Popa et al.) using WebPlotDigitizer (https://automeris.io/), the ON and OFF subscripts denote the conditions with cerebellum active or not, respectively, 𝐹𝑍(. ) 

denotes the Fisher Z transform, and 〈. 〉 the mean across frequencies within the gamma band, generating eventually a vector of two values, one per hemisphere. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

For fitting all the above model parameters, the Simulation Based Inference (SBI) Python toolbox (version 0.22.0; https://sbi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) was used on the basis of TVMB-only simulations. Following evidence for SBI’s accuracy and computational performance in a previous TVB study (Hashemi et al., 2023), the Sequential Neural Posterior Estimation – Conditional algorithm (Greenberg et al., 2019) with the default Masked Autoregressive Flow density estimator was used. We sampled from the posterior distributions of the parameters, as approximated by the neural networks, with SBI’s rejection sampling algorithm. Default arguments for all SBI functions were used unless explicitly mentioned. After training, SBI was applied to sample 1000 parameter values from the posterior distributions, the average of which was used for further simulations. Moreover, 100 of those samples were used for simulations, the results of which were compared against the fitting targets. The robustness of fitting results for the approximated posterior distributions was validated using the metrics of Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) optimized by SBI, statistical mean and standard deviation of the 1000 parameter sets sampled by SBI, as well as statistical shrinkage computed as 1 − 𝜎 ௣௢௦௧ ଶ 𝜎 ௣௥௜௢௥ ଶ

ൗ , where 

𝜎 ௣௥௜௢௥ and 𝜎 ௣௢௦௧ denote the standard deviation of the prior and posterior distributions, respectively. All these metrics were computed not only for the fitting results used for simulations but for 10 additional training repetitions using a random subsample of 80% of the training samples. Fitting parameters 𝐼 ௌ, 𝐶 ௦௧ 

and 𝐶 ௦௣ was performed along two rounds with 1000 training parameters’ samples each; the second round was aiming at increasing accuracy and used as prior distributions the posterior distributions of the first round. Fitting the parameters of the whisking-specifc pathway was performed in one round with 1000 training parameters’ samples. 

4.6.2 Inter-scale interface parameters 

Fitting the interface parameters 𝑤 ் ௏ெ஻ →ோௌ் , 𝑤 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ and 𝑏 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ for each one of the selected 

𝐺 values followed a three-step procedure: 1) 𝑤 ் ௏ெ஻ →ோௌ் was tuned using grid search and subsequent linear interpolation aiming for a firing rate of 4.2 Hz for the granule cells of Ansiform lobule (Chen et al., 2017). The range of 𝑤 ் ௏ெ஻ →ோௌ் and the values of 𝑤 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ and 𝑏 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ were chosen based on preliminary co-simulations. 2) The latter two parameters were computed as follows 

𝑤 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ = (〈𝐸 ௜் ௏ெ஻ (𝑡)〉 ଽଽ − 〈𝐸 ௜் ௏ெ஻ (𝑡)〉 ହ଴ ) (〈𝑟 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ (𝑡)〉 ଽଽ − 〈𝑟 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ (𝑡)〉 ହ଴ )⁄ (12) 

𝑏 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ = 〈𝐸 ௜் ௏ெ஻ (𝑡)〉 ହ଴ − 𝑤 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ 〈𝑟 ௜ோௌ் →்௏ெ஻ (𝑡)〉 ହ଴ (13) where 〈. 〉 ௉ denotes the 𝑃 th percentile of the time series and 𝐸 ௜் ௏ெ஻ (𝑡) denotes time series of the activity of the 𝐸 ௜ state variable from TVMB-only simulations. Thus, we obtain a TVMB signal of almost identical baseline and amplitude in co-simulations as in TVMB-only simulations. 3) The grid search was repeated to readjust 𝑤 ் ௏ெ஻ →ோௌ் with the tuned parameters of the NEST to TVMB interface. Finally, 10 co-simulation runs with the final set of parameters were used to confirm the target granule cell rate. 

4.6.3 Model validation 

To assess that the fitted whole-brain model reproduced the M1-S1 gamma-band coherence drop when inactivating the cerebellar nuclei as in (Popa et al., 2013), we simulated 10 runs under four conditions with cerebellum active (cerebON) or not (cerebOFF): (i) TVMB-only simulations with cerebellum active, (ii) TVMB-only simulations with cerebellum inactivated, (iii) TVMB-NEST co-simulations with cerebellum active, and (iv) TVMB-NEST co-simulations with cerebellum inactivated., 

# 4.7 Microcircuit lesion co-simulations 

To test hypotheses regarding cerebellar microcircuit mechanisms underlying cerebellar contribution to M1-S1 coherence, we applied localized lesions within the SNN in TVMB-NEST co-simulations and quantified the changes in M1-S1 coherence. Specifically, we selectively inactivated synaptic connections within the cerebellar SNN: (a) mossy fibers projections to CNe – excitatory CN neurons, i.e. the direct nuclear pathway (MOStoCN); (b) inhibitory PC projections to CNe, i.e. the indirect cortical pathway (PCtoCN); (c) inhibitory projections from MLI to PC (MLItoPC), and (d) self-inhibition among MLI (MLItoMLI). All lesions were implemented by setting the corresponding SNN connection weights to 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

0. To isolate synaptic effects on spiking dynamics without altering average firing rates (Heinzle et al., 2007), inside the SNN we adjusted the target population endogenous current parameter, which controls spontaneous firing (Geminiani et al., 2018). The new value was set to preserve the average firing rate of the target population and the CNe in 1-s resting-state NEST-only simulations of the SNN, taken as the reference value. To further control for activity baseline and amplitude confounds in whole-brain whisking co-simulations, we performed co-simulations also with normalized cerebellar output. Specifically, the NEST to TVMB interface parameters were adjusted such that the output CN to TVMB signal was normalized by its median baseline (50 th percentile) and amplitude (99 th –50 th percentile) as measured in the corresponding TVMB-NEST co-simulations with cerebellar nuclei active (CONTROL ). In all lesion conditions, cerebellar input-output and M1-S1 coherence were compared to values in CONTROL co-simulations. 

# 4.8 Analysis and Statistics 

From the excitatory activity signal of M1 and S1 TVMB nodes, we computed the Power Spectral Density (PSD) of each region, as the spectrogram normalized by the power across all frequencies, and the spectral coherence between the two regions. For simulations with inactivation of the cerebellum, we extracted the average value in the gamma band (25 – 60 Hz) in cerebON and cerebOFF conditions, and its drop as percentage of the normalized difference ( cerebON – cerebOFF ) / cerebON .In the SNN virtual lesion co-simulations, for all conditions, besides M1-S1 gamma-band coherence, we also computed coherence between cerebellar input and output, from the activity of TVMB interface nodes of the trigeminal nucleus, conveying the whisking input signal to cerebellar mossy fibers, and the CN, sending the output of the cerebellum to the rest of the brain. For both pairs of regions, we report the gamma-band and gamma-to-theta average values. Inside the SNN, we computed the PSD of mossy fibers, PC and CNe from the population activity extracted from spikes. We quantified the power of PC/CNe neurons relative to mossy fibers as power ratio, defined as the ratio between the integrals of the PSD for each of the two populations of interest and the mossy fibers in specific frequency bands. Finally, as a measure of inter-population synchronization of spiking activity in the gamma band, we computed the phase-locking value (PLV) between CNe spikes and the mossy fiber population activity signal filtered in the gamma band, using the Hilbert transform to compute the instantaneous phase, the cross-correlation between mossy fibers and CNe firing rate signals, and the pair-wise correlation of spike trains in bins of 10ms. For internal population synchronization, we computed the PLV between CNe spikes and the overall CNe population activity signal filtered in the gamma band, and the pairwise spike train correlations of CNe and PC populations in time bins of 10ms. For all conditions and all extracted values, we report mean and STD over 10 simulation runs after averaging values for the two hemispheres in each run. For comparison between conditions, independent-samples two-sided unpaired t-test is used, with p<0.05, p<0.01 and p<0.001 for statistical significance, applying FDR correction in the virtual lesion conditions, as multiple comparisons are run. 

# 4.9 Hardware and software specifications 

Simulations and SBI fitting have been performed on the High-Performance Cluster for Research and Clinic of the Berlin Institute of Health, Berlin, Germany. 

# 4.10 Data and code availability 

All code is available at https://github.com/virtual-twin/tvb-multiscale-rising-net. All data for reproducing our results are uploaded in repository. 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

# 5. Acknowledgements 

We thank Fulvia Palesi for initial discussions and Michael Schirner for insightful discussions on feedback inhibition control. PR acknowledges support by the EU Horizon Europe program: BRIDGE (101219311), EBRAINS2.0 (101147319), Virtual Brain Twin (101137289), EBRAINS-PREP 101079717, AISN 101057655, EBRAIN-Health 101058516, EIC grant PHRASE 101058240, the Digital Europe Programme: TEF-Health (101100700), SHAIPED (101195135), CoordinaTEF (101168074), the German Research Foundation: SFB 1436 (project ID 425899996); SFB 1315 (project ID 327654276); SFB 936 (project ID 178316478; SPP Computational Connectomics RI 2073/6-1, RI 2073/10-2, RI 2073/9-1; DFG Clinical Research Group BECAUSE-Y 504745852, DFG German-Spanish project BrainsAge RI 2073/14-1, DFG Project-ID 424778381 - TRR 295 Retune, ERA PerMed JTC2021 German Federal Ministry for Health PatternCog ZMI5-2522FSB904, Berlin University Alliance OpenMake, the Virtual Research Environment at the Charité Berlin and EBRAINS Health Data Cloud and the Berlin Institute of Health and Foundation Charité. JM acknowledges support by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) - Project-ID 424778381 - TRR 295. This research has received a Voucher (CEoI 4- Rodent microcircuits: RisingNet Whole-bRaIn rodent SpikING neural NETworks) from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 Framework Programme for Research and Innovation under the Specific Grant Agreement No. 945539 (Human Brain Project SGA3) to EDA, supporting AG, CC and ED. AG also acknowledges support by IBRO through an IBRO Short Stay Grant. ED acknowledges support by the EU Horizon Europe program: EBRAINS2.0 (101147319), Virtual Brain Twin (101137289), TEF-Health (101100700), and by the NEXTGENERATIONEU (NGEU) and funded by the Ministry of University and Research (MUR), National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NRRP), project MNESYS (PE0000006) – A Multiscale integrated approach to the study of the nervous system in health and disease (DN. 1553 11.10.2022), and project EBRAINS-Italy (PIR0000011, CUP B51E22000150006, “EBRAINS-Italy”). CC acknowledges support by EU Horizon Europe program EBRAINS2.0 (101147319). 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

# 6. References 

Abbruzzese, G., & Berardelli, A. (2003). Sensorimotor integration in movement disorders. 

Movement Disorders , 18 (3), 231–240. https://doi.org/10.1002/MDS.10327;SUBPAGE:STRING:ABSTRACT;WEBSITE:WEBSI TE:MOVEMENTDISORDERS;JOURNAL:JOURNAL:15318257;REQUESTEDJOURNA L:JOURNAL:15318257;WGROUP:STRING:PUBLICATION Allegra Mascaro, A. L., Falotico, E., Petkoski, S., Pasquini, M., Vannucci, L., Tort-Colet, N., Conti, E., Resta, F., Spalletti, C., Ramalingasetty, S. T., von Arnim, A., Formento, E., Angelidis, E., Blixhavn, C. H., Leergaard, T. B., Caleo, M., Destexhe, A., Ijspeert, A., Micera, S., … Pavone, F. S. (2020). Experimental and Computational Study on Motor Control and Recovery After Stroke: Toward a Constructive Loop Between Experimental and Virtual Embodied Neuroscience. Frontiers in Systems Neuroscience , 14 , 481617. https://doi.org/10.3389/FNSYS.2020.00031/FULL Amico, E., & Goñi, J. (2018). Mapping hybrid functional-structural connectivity traits in the human connectome. Network Neuroscience (Cambridge, Mass.) , 2(3), 306–322. https://doi.org/10.1162/netn_a_00049 Antonietti, A., Geminiani, A., Negri, E., D’Angelo, E., Casellato, C., & Pedrocchi, A. (2022). Brain-Inspired Spiking Neural Network Controller for a Neurorobotic Whisker System. 

Frontiers in Neurorobotics , 16 , 817948. https://doi.org/10.3389/FNBOT.2022.817948/TEXT Aoki, F., Fetz, E. E., Shupe, L., Lettich, E., & Ojemann, G. A. (1999). Increased gamma-range activity in human sensorimotor cortex during performance of visuomotor tasks. 

Clinical Neurophysiology , 110 (3), 524–537. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1388-2457(98)00064-9 Bosman, L. W. J., Houweling, A. R., Owens, C. B., Tanke, N., Shevchouk, O. T., Rahmati, N., Teunissen, W. H. T., Ju, C., Gong, W., Koekkoek, S. K. E., & De Zeeuw, C. I. (2011). Anatomical pathways involved in generating and sensing rhythmic whisker movements. 

Frontiers in Integrative Neuroscience , 5, 53. https://doi.org/10.3389/fnint.2011.00053 Bosman, L. W. J., Koekkoek, S. K. E., Shapiro, J., Rijken, B. F. M., Zandstra, F., van der Ende, B., Owens, C. B., Potters, J.-W., de Gruijl, J. R., Ruigrok, T. J. H., & De Zeeuw, C. I. (2010). Encoding of whisker input by cerebellar Purkinje cells. The Journal of Physiology , 588 (Pt 19), 3757–3783. https://doi.org/10.1113/jphysiol.2010.195180 Bower, J. M. (2002). The organization of cerebellar cortical circuitry revisited: implications for function. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences , 978 , 135–155. https://doi.org/10.1111/J.1749-6632.2002.TB07562.X Breakspear, M., Roberts, J. A., Terry, J. R., Rodrigues, S., Mahant, N., & Robinson, P. A. (2006). A unifying explanation of primary generalized seizures through nonlinear brain modeling and bifurcation analysis. Cerebral Cortex , 16 (9), 1296–1313. https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhj072 Brown, S. T., Holla, M. R., Land, M. A., Yang, S., McDonald, A. J., St-Pierre, F., & Raman, I. M. (2025). High-speed voltage imaging of action potentials in molecular layer interneurons reveals sensory-driven synchrony that augments movement. Cell Reports ,

44 (8), 116148. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2025.116148 Brown, S. T., & Raman, I. M. (2018). Sensorimotor Integration and Amplification of Reflexive Whisking by Well-Timed Spiking in the Cerebellar Corticonuclear Circuit. Neuron , 99 (3), 564-575.e2. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2018.06.028 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Calabrese, E., Badea, A., Cofer, G., Qi, Y., & Johnson, G. A. (2015). A Diffusion MRI Tractography Connectome of the Mouse Brain and Comparison with Neuronal Tracer Data. Cerebral Cortex , 25 (11), 4628–4637. https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhv121 Cavallari, S., Panzeri, S., & Mazzoni, A. (2014). Comparison of the dynamics of neural interactions between current-based and conductance-based integrate-and-fire recurrent networks. Frontiers in Neural Circuits , 8(March), 1–23. https://doi.org/10.3389/fncir.2014.00012 Chen, S., Augustine, G. J., & Chadderton, P. (2016). The cerebellum linearly encodes whisker position during voluntary movement. ELife , 5, e10509. https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.10509 Chen, S., Augustine, G. J., & Chadderton, P. (2017). Serial processing of kinematic signals by cerebellar circuitry during voluntary whisking. Nature Communications , 8(1), 232. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-017-00312-1 D’Angelo, E. (2011). Neural circuits of the cerebellum: hypothesis for function. Journal of Integrative Neuroscience , 10 (3), 317–352. https://doi.org/10.1142/S0219635211002762 D’Angelo, E., Antonietti, A., Geminiani, A., Gambosi, B., Alessandro, C., Buttarazzi, E., Pedrocchi, A., & Casellato, C. (2025). Linking cellular-level phenomena to brain architecture: the case of spiking cerebellar controllers. Neural Networks , 188 .https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2025.107538 De Schepper, R., Geminiani, A., Masoli, S., Rizza, M. F., Antonietti, A., Casellato, C., & D’Angelo, E. (2022). Model simulations unveil the structure-function-dynamics relationship of the cerebellar cortical microcircuit. Communications Biology 2022 5:1 ,

5(1), 1240-. https://doi.org/10.1038/s42003-022-04213-y De Zeeuw, C. I., Hoebeek, F. E., & Schonewille, M. (2008). Causes and Consequences of Oscillations in the Cerebellar Cortex. Neuron , 58 (5), 655–658. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2008.05.019 Deco, G., Ponce-Alvarez, A., Hagmann, P., Romani, G. L., Mantini, D., & Corbetta, M. (2014). How local excitation-inhibition ratio impacts the whole brain dynamics. The Journal of Neuroscience , 34 (23), 7886–7898. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5068-13.2014 Dong, H. W. (2008). The Allen reference atlas: A digital color brain atlas of the C57Bl/6J male mouse . John Wiley & Sons Inc. https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2008-01792-000 Eccles, J. C. (1973). The cerebellum as a computer: patterns in space and time. The Journal of Physiology , 229 (1), 1. https://doi.org/10.1113/JPHYSIOL.1973.SP010123 Eccles, J. C., Ito, M., & Szentágothai, J. (1967). Introduction. The Cerebellum as a Neuronal Machine , 1–3. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-13147-3_1 Edwards, L. L., King, E. M., Buetefisch, C. M., & Borich, M. R. (2019). Putting the “Sensory” Into Sensorimotor Control: The Role of Sensorimotor Integration in Goal-Directed Hand Movements After Stroke. Frontiers in Integrative Neuroscience , 13 , 16. https://doi.org/10.3389/FNINT.2019.00016 Ferezou, I., Haiss, F., Gentet, L. J., Aronoff, R., Weber, B., & Petersen, C. C. H. (2007). Spatiotemporal Dynamics of Cortical Sensorimotor Integration in Behaving Mice. 

Neuron , 56 (5), 907–923. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2007.10.007 Ferguson, B. R., & Gao, W.-J. (2018). Thalamic Control of Cognition and Social Behavior Via Regulation of Gamma-Aminobutyric Acidergic Signaling and Excitation/Inhibition Balance in the Medial Prefrontal Cortex. Biological Psychiatry , 83 (8), 657–669. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.11.033 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Flanders, M. (2011). What is the biological basis of sensorimotor integration? Biological Cybernetics , 104 (1–2), 1. https://doi.org/10.1007/S00422-011-0419-9 Fornito, Alex., Zalesky, Andrew., & Bullmore, E. T. . (2016). Fundamentals of brain network analysis . 476. https://books.google.com/books/about/Fundamentals_of_Brain_Network_Analysis.html ?hl=it&id=Hc-cBAAAQBAJ Freyer, F., Roberts, J. A., Becker, R., Robinson, P. A., Ritter, P., & Breakspear, M. (2011). Biophysical mechanisms of multistability in resting-state cortical rhythms. The Journal of Neuroscience , 31 (17), 6353–6361. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.6693-10.2011 Fries, P. (2015). Rhythms for Cognition: Communication through Coherence. Neuron , 88 (1), 220–235. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2015.09.034 Gaffield, M. A., & Christie, J. M. (2017). Movement Rate Is Encoded and Influenced by Widespread, Coherent Activity of Cerebellar Molecular Layer Interneurons. The Journal of Neuroscience , 37 (18), 4751. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0534-17.2017 Geminiani, A., Casellato, C., Boele, H. J., Pedrocchi, A., De Zeeuw, C. I., & D’Angelo, E. (2024). Mesoscale simulations predict the role of synergistic cerebellar plasticity during classical eyeblink conditioning. PLOS Computational Biology , 20 (4), e1011277. https://doi.org/10.1371/JOURNAL.PCBI.1011277 Geminiani, A., Casellato, C., D’Angelo, E., & Pedrocchi, A. (2019). Complex electroresponsive dynamics in olivocerebellar neurons represented with extended-generalized leaky integrate and fire models. Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience ,

13 . https://doi.org/10.3389/fncom.2019.00035 Geminiani, A., Casellato, C., Locatelli, F., Prestori, F., Pedrocchi, A., & D’Angelo, E. (2018). Complex dynamics in simplified neuronal models: reproducing Golgi cell electroresponsiveness. Frontiers in Neuroinformatics , 12 (88), 1–19. https://doi.org/10.3389/fninf.2018.00088 Geminiani, A., Pedrocchi, A., D’Angelo, E., & Casellato, C. (2019). Response Dynamics in an Olivocerebellar Spiking Neural Network With Non-linear Neuron Properties. 

Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience , 13 .https://doi.org/10.3389/fncom.2019.00068 Greenberg, D., Nonnenmacher, M., & Macke, J. (2019). Automatic posterior transformation for likelihood-free inference. International Conference on Machine Learning , 2404– 2414. Griffiths, J. D., & Lefebvre, J. R. (2019). Shaping Brain Rhythms: Dynamic and Control-Theoretic Perspectives on Periodic Brain Stimulation for Treatment of Neurological Disorders. In V. Cutsuridis (Ed.), Multiscale models of brain disorders (Vol. 13, pp. 193– 205). Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-18830-6_18 Griffiths, J. D., McIntosh, A. R., & Lefebvre, J. (2020). A Connectome-Based, Corticothalamic Model of State- and Stimulation-Dependent Modulation of Rhythmic Neural Activity and Connectivity. Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience , 14 , 575143. https://doi.org/10.3389/fncom.2020.575143 Guillery, R. W., Feig, S. L., & Lozsádi, D. A. (1998). Paying attention to the thalamic reticular nucleus. Trends in Neurosciences , 21 (1), 28–32. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0166-2236(97)01157-0 Hahne, J., Diaz, S., Patronis, A., Schenck, W., Peyser, A., Graber, S., Spreizer, S., Vennemo, S. B., Ippen, T., Mørk, H., Jordan, J., Senk, J., Konradi, S., Weidel, P., 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Fardet, T., Dahmen, D., Terhorst, D., Stapmanns, J., Trensch, G., … Plesser, H. E. (2021). NEST 3.0. Zenodo . https://doi.org/10.5281/ZENODO.4739103 Hashemi, M., Vattikonda, A. N., Jha, J., Sip, V., Woodman, M. M., Bartolomei, F., & Jirsa, V. K. (2023). Amortized Bayesian inference on generative dynamical network models of epilepsy using deep neural density estimators. Neural Networks , 163 , 178–194. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.NEUNET.2023.03.040 Hater, T., Courson, J., Lu, H., Diaz-Pier, S., & Manos, T. (2026). Arbor-TVB: a novel multi-scale co-simulation framework with a case study on neural-level seizure generation and whole-brain propagation. Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience , 19 , 1731161. https://doi.org/10.3389/FNCOM.2025.1731161/TEXT Heiney, S. A., Kim, J., Augustine, G. J., & Medina, J. F. (2014). Precise Control of Movement Kinematics by Optogenetic Inhibition of Purkinje Cell Activity. Journal of Neuroscience ,

34 (6), 2321–2330. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4547-13.2014 Heinzle, J., König, P., & Salazar, R. F. (2007). Modulation of synchrony without changes in firing rates. Cognitive Neurodynamics 2007 1:3 , 1(3), 225–235. https://doi.org/10.1007/S11571-007-9017-X Ivica, N., Censoni, L., Sjöbom, J., Richter, U., & Petersson, P. (2022). Differential effects of skilled reaching training on the temporal and spatial organization of somatosensory input to cortical and striatal motor circuits. Journal of Neurophysiology , 127 (1), 225– 238. https://doi.org/10.1152/JN.00464.2021 Kelly, E., Meng, F., Fujita, H., Morgado, F., Kazemi, Y., Rice, L. C., Ren, C., Escamilla, C. O., Gibson, J. M., Sajadi, S., Pendry, R. J., Tan, T., Ellegood, J., Basson, M. A., Blakely, R. D., Dindot, S. V, Golzio, C., Hahn, M. K., Katsanis, N., … Tsai, P. T. (2020). Regulation of autism-relevant behaviors by cerebellar-prefrontal cortical circuits. Nature Neuroscience , 23 (9), 1102–1110. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-020-0665-z Kusch, L., Diaz-Pier, S., Klijn, W., Sontheimer, K., Bernard, C., Morrison, A., & Jirsa, V. (2024). Multiscale co-simulation design pattern for neuroscience applications. Frontiers in Neuroinformatics , 18 , 1156683. https://doi.org/10.3389/FNINF.2024.1156683/TEXT Lindeman, S., Hong, S., Kros, L., Mejias, J. F., Romano, V., Oostenveld, R., Negrello, M., Bosman, L. W. J., & de Zeeuw, C. I. (2021). Cerebellar Purkinje cells can differentially modulate coherence between sensory and motor cortex depending on region and behavior. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , 118 (2), e2015292118. https://doi.org/10.1073/PNAS.2015292118 Lowet, E., Roberts, M. J., Bonizzi, P., Karel, J., & De Weerd, P. (2016). Quantifying Neural Oscillatory Synchronization: A Comparison between Spectral Coherence and Phase-Locking Value Approaches. PLOS ONE , 11 (1), e0146443. https://doi.org/10.1371/JOURNAL.PONE.0146443 Luo, J., Kothari, N. B., & Moss, C. F. (2017). Sensorimotor integration on a rapid time scale. 

Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ,

114 (25), 6605–6610. https://doi.org/10.1073/PNAS.1702671114;PAGE:STRING:ARTICLE/CHAPTER Marshall, J. D., Li, J. Z., Zhang, Y., Gong, Y., St-Pierre, F., Lin, M. Z., & Schnitzer, M. J. (2016). Cell-Type-Specific Optical Recording of Membrane Voltage Dynamics in Freely Moving Mice. Cell , 167 (6), 1650-1662.e15. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2016.11.021 Matyas, F., Sreenivasan, V., Marbach, F., Wacongne, C., Barsy, B., Mateo, C., Aronoff, R., & Petersen, C. C. H. (2010). Motor control by sensory cortex. Science (New York, N.Y.) ,

330 (6008), 1240–1243. https://doi.org/10.1126/SCIENCE.1195797 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

McAfee, S. S., Liu, Y., Sillitoe, R. V., & Heck, D. H. (2022). Cerebellar Coordination of Neuronal Communication in Cerebral Cortex. Frontiers in Systems Neuroscience , 15 ,781527. https://doi.org/10.3389/FNSYS.2021.781527/FULL Meier, J. M., Perdikis, D., Blickensdörfer, A., Stefanovski, L., Liu, Q., Maith, O., Dinkelbach, H. Ü., Baladron, J., Hamker, F. H., & Ritter, P. (2022). Virtual deep brain stimulation: Multiscale co-simulation of a spiking basal ganglia model and a whole-brain mean-field model with The Virtual Brain. Experimental Neurology , 354 , 114111. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2022.114111 Melozzi, F., Woodman, M. M., Jirsa, V. K., & Bernard, C. (2017). The Virtual Mouse Brain: A Computational Neuroinformatics Platform to Study Whole Mouse Brain Dynamics. 

ENeuro , 4(3). https://doi.org/10.1523/ENEURO.0111-17.2017 Middleton, S. J., Racca, C., Cunningham, M. O., Traub, R. D., Monyer, H., Knöpfel, T., Schofield, I. S., Jenkins, A., & Whittington, M. A. (2008). High-Frequency Network Oscillations in Cerebellar Cortex. Neuron , 58 (5), 763–774. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2008.03.030 Mo, C., & Sherman, S. M. (2019). A Sensorimotor Pathway via Higher-Order Thalamus. 

Journal of Neuroscience , 39 (4), 692–704. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1467-18.2018 O’Connor, S. M., Berg, R. W., & Kleinfeld, D. (2002). Coherent Electrical Activity Between Vibrissa Sensory Areas of Cerebellum and Neocortex Is Enhanced During Free Whisking. Https://Doi.Org/10.1152/Jn.00229.2001 , 87 (4), 2137–2148. https://doi.org/10.1152/JN.00229.2001 Ódor, G., Deco, G., & Kelling, J. (2022). Differences in the critical dynamics underlying the human and fruit-fly connectome. Physical Review Research , 4(2). https://doi.org/10.1103/PHYSREVRESEARCH.4.023057 Oh, S. W., Harris, J. A., Ng, L., Winslow, B., Cain, N., Mihalas, S., Wang, Q., Lau, C., Kuan, L., Henry, A. M., Mortrud, M. T., Ouellette, B., Nguyen, T. N., Sorensen, S. A., Slaughterbeck, C. R., Wakeman, W., Li, Y., Feng, D., Ho, A., … Zeng, H. (2014). A mesoscale connectome of the mouse brain. Nature , 508 (7495), 207–214. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature13186 Olivito, G., Clausi, S., Laghi, F., Tedesco, A. M., Baiocco, R., Mastropasqua, C., Molinari, M., Cercignani, M., Bozzali, M., & Leggio, M. (2017). Resting-State Functional Connectivity Changes Between Dentate Nucleus and Cortical Social Brain Regions in Autism Spectrum Disorders. Cerebellum (London, England) , 16 (2), 283–292. https://doi.org/10.1007/S12311-016-0795-8 Palesi, F., De Rinaldis, A., Castellazzi, G., Calamante, F., Muhlert, N., Chard, D., Tournier, J. D., Magenes, G., D’Angelo, E., & Wheeler-Kingshott, C. A. M. G. (2017). Contralateral cortico-ponto-cerebellar pathways reconstruction in humans in vivo: Implications for reciprocal cerebro-cerebellar structural connectivity in motor and non-motor areas. 

Scientific Reports , 7(1). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-13079-8 Palesi, F., Lorenzi, R. M., Casellato, C., Ritter, P., Jirsa, V., Gandini Wheeler-Kingshott, C. A. M., & D’Angelo, E. (2020). The Importance of Cerebellar Connectivity on Simulated Brain Dynamics. Frontiers in Cellular Neuroscience , 14 , 570527. https://doi.org/10.3389/FNCEL.2020.00240/TEXT Palesi, F., Tournier, J. D., Calamante, F., Muhlert, N., Castellazzi, G., Chard, D., D’Angelo, E., & Wheeler-Kingshott, C. A. M. (2015). Contralateral cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathways with prominent involvement of associative areas in humans in vivo. Brain Structure & Function , 220 (6), 3369–3384. https://doi.org/10.1007/S00429-014-0861-2 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Person, A. L., & Raman, I. M. (2011). Purkinje neuron synchrony elicits time-locked spiking in the cerebellar nuclei. Nature , 481 (7382), 502–505. https://doi.org/10.1038/NATURE10732 Petersen, C. C. H. (2014). Cortical control of whisker movement. Annual Review of Neuroscience , 37 , 183–203. https://doi.org/10.1146/ANNUREV-NEURO-062012-170344 Pisano, T. J., Dhanerawala, Z. M., Kislin, M., Bakshinskaya, D., Engel, E. A., Hansen, E. J., Hoag, A. T., Lee, J., de Oude, N. L., Venkataraju, K. U., Verpeut, J. L., Hoebeek, F. E., Richardson, B. D., Boele, H. J., & Wang, S. S. H. (2021). Homologous organization of cerebellar pathways to sensory, motor, and associative forebrain. Cell Reports , 36 (12). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2021.109721 Popa, D., Spolidoro, M., Proville, R. D., Guyon, N., Belliveau, L., & Léna, C. (2013). Functional role of the cerebellum in gamma-band synchronization of the sensory and motor cortices. The Journal of Neuroscience࣯ : The Official Journal of the Society for Neuroscience , 33 (15), 6552–6556. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5521-12.2013 Proville, R. D., Spolidoro, M., Guyon, N., Dugué, G. P., Selimi, F., Isope, P., Popa, D., & Léna, C. (2014). Cerebellum involvement in cortical sensorimotor circuits for the control of voluntary movements. Nature Neuroscience , 17 (9), 1233–1239. https://doi.org/10.1038/NN.3773;TECHMETA Rancz, E. A., Ishikawa, T., Duguid, I., Chadderton, P., Mahon, S., & Häusser, M. (2007). High-fidelity transmission of sensory information by single cerebellar mossy fibre boutons. Nature , 450 (7173), 1245–1248. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature05995 Ritter, P., Schirner, M., Mcintosh, A. R., & Jirsa, V. K. (2013). The virtual brain integrates computational modeling and multimodal neuroimaging. Brain Connectivity , 3(2), 121– 145. https://doi.org/10.1089/BRAIN.2012.0120 Riva, D., Annunziata, S., Contarino, V., Erbetta, A., Aquino, D., & Bulgheroni, S. (2013). Gray Matter Reduction in the Vermis and CRUS-II Is Associated with Social and Interaction Deficits in Low-Functioning Children with Autistic Spectrum Disorders: a VBM-DARTEL Study. The Cerebellum 2013 12:5 , 12 (5), 676–685. https://doi.org/10.1007/S12311-013-0469-8 Robinson, P. A., Rennie, C. J., Wright, J. J., Bahramali, H., Gordon, E., & Rowe, D. L. (2001). Prediction of electroencephalographic spectra from neurophysiology. Physical Review. E, Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft Matter Physics , 63 (2 Pt 1), 021903. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.63.021903 Rocha, R. P., Koçillari, L., Suweis, S., Corbetta, M., & Maritan, A. (2018). Homeostatic plasticity and emergence of functional networks in a whole-brain model at criticality. 

Scientific Reports 2018 8:1 , 8(1), 15682-. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-33923-9 Romano, V., de Propris, L., Bosman, L. W. J., Warnaar, P., Ten Brinke, M. M., Lindeman, S., Ju, C., Velauthapillai, A., Spanke, J. K., Guerra, E. M., Hoogland, T. M., Negrello, M., D’angelo, E., & De Zeeuw, C. I. (2018). Potentiation of cerebellar purkinje cells facilitates whisker reflex adaptation through increased simple spike activity. ELife , 7.https://doi.org/10.7554/ELIFE.38852 Romano, V., Reddington, A. L., Cazzanelli, S., Mazza, R., Ma, Y., Strydis, C., Negrello, M., Bosman, L. W. J., & De Zeeuw, C. I. (2020). Functional Convergence of Autonomic and Sensorimotor Processing in the Lateral Cerebellum. Cell Reports , 32 (1), 107867. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.CELREP.2020.107867 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Sanz-Leon, P., Knock, S. A., Spiegler, A., & Jirsa, V. K. (2015). Mathematical framework for large-scale brain network modeling in The Virtual Brain. NeuroImage , 111 , 385–430. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.NEUROIMAGE.2015.01.002 Sanz-Leon, P., Knock, S. A., Woodman, M. M., Domide, L., Mersmann, J., Mcintosh, A. R., & Jirsa, V. (2013). The virtual brain: A simulator of primate brain network dynamics. 

Frontiers in Neuroinformatics , 7(MAY), 47900. https://doi.org/10.3389/FNINF.2013.00010/ABSTRACT Schirner, M., Deco, G., & Ritter, P. (2023). Learning how network structure shapes decision-making for bio-inspired computing. Nature Communications 2023 14:1 , 14 (1), 2963-. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-38626-y Schirner, M., Domide, L., Perdikis, D., Triebkorn, P., Stefanovski, L., Pai, R., Prodan, P., Valean, B., Palmer, J., Langford, C., Blickensdörfer, A., van der Vlag, M., Diaz-Pier, S., Peyser, A., Klijn, W., Pleiter, D., Nahm, A., Schmid, O., Woodman, M., … Ritter, P. (2022). Brain simulation as a cloud service: The Virtual Brain on EBRAINS. 

NeuroImage , 251 . https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.118973 Schirner, M., McIntosh, A. R., Jirsa, V., Deco, G., & Ritter, P. (2018). Inferring multi-scale neural mechanisms with brain network modelling. ELife , 7.https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.28927 Shin, S. L., & De Schutter, E. (2006). Dynamic Synchronization of Purkinje Cell Simple Spikes. Https://Doi.Org/10.1152/Jn.00570.2006 , 96 (6), 3485–3491. https://doi.org/10.1152/JN.00570.2006 Sober, S. J., & Sabes, P. N. (2005). Flexible strategies for sensory integration during motor planning. Nature Neuroscience , 8(4), 490. https://doi.org/10.1038/NN1427 Spiegler, A., Abadchi, J. K., Mohajerani, M., & Jirsa, V. K. (2020). In silico exploration of mouse brain dynamics by focal stimulation reflects the organization of functional networks and sensory processing. Network Neuroscience (Cambridge, Mass.) , 4(3), 807–851. https://doi.org/10.1162/netn_a_00152 Sreenivasan, V., Esmaeili, V., Kiritani, T., Galan, K., Crochet, S., & Petersen, C. C. H. (2016). Movement initiation signals in mouse whisker motor cortex. Neuron , 92 (6), 1368–1382. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2016.12.001 Takatoh, J., Prevosto, V., Thompson, P. M., Lu, J., Chung, L., Harrahill, A., Li, S., Zhao, S., He, Z., Golomb, D., Kleinfeld, D., & Wang, F. (2022). The whisking oscillator circuit. 

Nature 2022 609:7927 , 609 (7927), 560–568. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-022-05144-8 Tartarini, L., Triebkorn, P., Kusch, L., Solinas, S., Wang, H., Gandolfi, D., Jirsa, V., & Mapelli, J. (2026). Co-simulation framework combining a microscopically detailed point neuron model of the hippocampal CA1 region with the macroscopic high-resolution virtual brain model. Journal of Computational Neuroscience 2026 , 1–8. https://doi.org/10.1007/S10827-026-00925-W Tejero-Cantero, A., Boelts, J., Deistler, M., Lueckmann, J.-M., Durkan, C., Gonçalves, P., Greenberg, D., & Macke, J. (2020). sbi: A toolkit for simulation-based inference. Journal of Open Source Software , 5(52), 2505. https://doi.org/10.21105/JOSS.02505/STATUS.SVG) ten Brinke, M. M., Boele, H. J., Spanke, J. K., Potters, J. W., Kornysheva, K., Wulff, P., IJpelaar, A. C. H. G., Koekkoek, S. K. E., & De Zeeuw, C. I. (2015). Evolving Models of Pavlovian Conditioning: Cerebellar Cortical Dynamics in Awake Behaving Mice. Cell Reports , 13 (9), 1977–1988. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2015.10.057 

> .CC-BY 4.0 International license made available under a (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 4, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.02.715849 doi: bioRxiv preprint

ten Brinke, M. M., Heiney, S. A., Wang, X., Proietti-Onori, M., Boele, H. J., Bakermans, J., Medina, J. F., Gao, Z., & De Zeeuw, C. I. (2017). Dynamic modulation of activity in cerebellar nuclei neurons during pavlovian eyeblink conditioning in mice. ELife , 6, 1–27. https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.28132 Timmann, D., Watts, S., & Hore, J. (1999). Failure of cerebellar patients to time finger opening precisely causes ball high-low inaccuracy in overarm throws. Journal of Neurophysiology , 82 (1), 103–114. https://doi.org/10.1152/JN.1999.82.1.103 Triebkorn, P., Meier, J., Zimmermann, J., Stefanovski, L., Roy, D., Solodkin, A., Jirsa, V., Deco, G., Breakspear, M., Schirner, M., McIntosh, A. R., & Ritter, P. (2024). Fifty shades of The Virtual Brain: Converging optimal working points yield biologically plausible electrophysiological and imaging features. BioRxiv , 2020.03.26.009795. https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.26.009795 van der Heijden, M. E., Brown, A. M., & Sillitoe, R. V. (2022). Influence of data sampling methods on the representation of neural spiking activity in vivo. IScience , 25 (11). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isci.2022.105429 Van Der Werf, Y. D., Witter, M. P., & Groenewegen, H. J. (2002). The intralaminar and midline nuclei of the thalamus. Anatomical and functional evidence for participation in processes of arousal and awareness. Brain Research Reviews , 39 (2–3), 107–140. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0165-0173(02)00181-9 Vecchio, F., Caliandro, P., Reale, G., Miraglia, F., Piludu, F., Masi, G., Iacovelli, C., Simbolotti, C., Padua, L., Leone, E., Alù, F., Colosimo, C., & Rossini, P. M. (2019). Acute cerebellar stroke and middle cerebral artery stroke exert distinctive modifications on functional cortical connectivity: A comparative study via EEG graph theory. Clinical Neurophysiology , 130 (6), 997–1007. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2019.03.017 White, E. L. (1979). Thalamocortical synaptic relations: A review with emphasis on the projections of specific thalamic nuclei to the primary sensory areas of the neocortex. 

Brain Research Reviews , 1(3), 275–311. https://doi.org/10.1016/0165-0173(79)90008-0 Wolpert, D. M., Diedrichsen, J., & Flanagan, J. R. (2011). Principles of sensorimotor learning. Nature Reviews Neuroscience 2011 12:12 , 12 (12), 739–751. https://doi.org/10.1038/nrn3112 Wolpert, D. M., Ghahramani, Z., & Jordan, M. I. (1995). An internal model for sensorimotor integration. Science , 269 (5232), 1880–1882. https://doi.org/10.1126/SCIENCE.7569931;PAGE:STRING:ARTICLE/CHAPTER Wu, S., Wardak, A., Khan, M. M., Chen, C. H., & Regehr, W. G. (2024). Implications of variable synaptic weights for rate and temporal coding of cerebellar outputs. ELife , 13 .https://doi.org/10.7554/ELIFE.89095 Wu, Y., & Raman, I. M. (2017). Facilitation of mossy fibre -driven spiking in the cerebellar nuclei by the synchrony of inhibition. The Journal of Physiology , 595 (15), 5245. https://doi.org/10.1113/JP274321